"Little tyke,"
"The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard —"
"— yes, their son, Harry —"
"Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man was wearing a violet cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, “Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!"
"Shoo!"
"Won’t!"
"And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation’s owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although owls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls have suddenly changed their sleeping pattern.” The newscaster allowed himself a grin. “Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim McGuffin with the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls tonight, Jim?"
"Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I don’t know about that, but it’s not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as far apart as Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they’ve had a downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early — it’s not until next week, folks! But I can promise a wet night tonight."
"Er — Petunia, dear — you haven’t heard from your sister lately, have you?"
"No,” she said sharply. “Why?"
"Funny stuff on the news,” Mr. Dursley mumbled. “Owls . . . shooting stars . . . and there were a lot of funny-looking people in town today . . ."
"So?"
"Well, I just thought . . . maybe . . . it was something to do with . . . you know . . . her crowd."
"Potter.” He decided he didn’t dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could, “Their son — he’d be about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t he?"
"I suppose so,"
"What’s his name again? Howard, isn’t it?"
"Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me."
"Oh, yes,” said Mr. Dursley, his heart sinking horribly. “Yes, I quite agree."
"I should have known."
"Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall."
"How did you know it was me?"
"My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffly."
"You’d be stiff if you’d been sitting on a brick wall all day,"
"All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have passed a dozen feasts and parties on my way here."
"Oh yes, everyone’s celebrating, all right,” she said impatiently. “You’d think they’d be a bit more careful, but no — even the Muggles have noticed something’s going on. It was on their news.” She jerked her head back at the Dursleys’ dark living-room window. “I heard it. Flocks of owls . . . shooting stars. . . . Well, they’re not completely stupid. They were bound to notice something. Shooting stars down in Kent — I’ll bet that was Dedalus Diggle. He never had much sense."
"You can’t blame them,” said Dumbledore gently. “We’ve had precious little to celebrate for eleven years."
"I know that,” said Professor McGonagall irritably. “But that’s no reason to lose our heads. People are being downright careless, out on the streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle clothes, swapping rumors."
"A fine thing it would be if, on the very day You-Know-Who seems to have disappeared at last, the Muggles found out about us all. I suppose he really has gone, Dumbledore?"
"It certainly seems so,” said Dumbledore. “We have much to be thankful for. Would you care for a lemon drop?"
"A what?"
"A lemon drop. They’re a kind of Muggle sweet I’m rather fond of."
"No, thank you,” said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though she didn’t think this was the moment for lemon drops. “As I say, even if You-Know-Who has gone —"
"My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call him by his name? All this ‘You-Know-Who’ nonsense — for eleven years I have been trying to persuade people to call him by his proper name: Voldemort.” Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore, who was unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. “It all gets so confusing if we keep saying ‘You-Know-Who.’ I have never seen any reason to be frightened of saying Voldemort’s name."
"I know you haven’t,” said Professor McGonagall, sounding half exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re different. Everyone knows you’re the only one You-Know- oh, all right, Voldemort, was frightened of."
"You flatter me,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Voldemort had powers I will never have."
"Only because you’re too — well — noble to use them."
"It’s lucky it’s dark. I haven’t blushed so much since Madam Pomfrey told me she liked my new earmuffs."
"The owls are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared? About what finally stopped him?"
"everyone"
"What they’re saying,” she pressed on, “is that last night Voldemort turned up in Godric’s Hollow. He went to find the Potters. The rumor is that Lily and James Potter are — are — that they’re — dead."
"Lily and James . . . I can’t believe it . . . I didn’t want to believe it . . . Oh, Albus . . ."
"I know . . . I know . . ."
"That’s not all. They’re saying he tried to kill the Potters’ son, Harry. But — he couldn’t. He couldn’t kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how, but they’re saying that when he couldn’t kill Harry Potter, Voldemort’s power somehow broke — and that’s why he’s gone."
"It’s — it’s true?” faltered Professor McGonagall. “After all he’s done . . . all the people he’s killed . . . he couldn’t kill a little boy? It’s just astounding . . . of all the things to stop him . . . but how in the name of heaven did Harry survive?"
"We can only guess,” said Dumbledore. “We may never know."
"Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was he who told you I’d be here, by the way?"
"Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “And I don’t suppose you’re going to tell me why you’re here, of all places?"
"I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They’re the only family he has left now."
"You don’t mean — you can’t mean the people who live here?” cried Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointing at number four. “Dumbledore — you can’t. I’ve been watching them all day. You couldn’t find two people who are less like us. And they’ve got this son — I saw him kicking his mother all the way up the street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter come and live here!"
"It’s the best place for him,” said Dumbledore firmly. “His aunt and uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he’s older. I’ve written them a letter."
"A letter?” repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back down on the wall. “Really, Dumbledore, you think you can explain all this in a letter? These people will never understand him! He’ll be famous — a legend — I wouldn’t be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter Day in the future — there will be books written about Harry — every child in our world will know his name!"
"Exactly,” said Dumbledore, looking very seriously over the top of his half-moon glasses. “It would be enough to turn any boy’s head. Famous before he can walk and talk! Famous for something he won’t even remember! Can’t you see how much better off he’ll be, growing up away from all that until he’s ready to take it?"
"Yes — yes, you’re right, of course. But how is the boy getting here, Dumbledore?"
"Hagrid’s bringing him."
"You think it — wise — to trust Hagrid with something as important as this?"
"I would trust Hagrid with my life,"
"I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right place,” said Professor McGonagall grudgingly, “but you can’t pretend he’s not careless. He does tend to — what was that?"
"Hagrid,” said Dumbledore, sounding relieved. “At last. And where did you get that motorcycle?"
"Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sir,” said the giant, climbing carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. “Young Sirius Black lent it to me. I’ve got him, sir."
"No problems, were there?"
"No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all right before the Muggles started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep as we was flyin’ over Bristol."
"Is that where — ?"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore. “He’ll have that scar forever."
"Couldn’t you do something about it, Dumbledore?"
"Even if I could, I wouldn’t. Scars can come in handy. I have one myself above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well — give him here, Hagrid — we’d better get this over with."
"Could I — could I say good-bye to him, sir?"
"Shhh!” hissed Professor McGonagall, “you’ll wake the Muggles!"
"S-s-sorry,” sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and burying his face in it. “But I c-c-can’t stand it — Lily an’ James dead — an’ poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles —"
"Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or we’ll be found,"
"Well,” said Dumbledore finally, “that’s that. We’ve no business staying here. We may as well go and join the celebrations."
"Yeah,” said Hagrid in a very muffled voice, “I’d best get this bike away. G’night, Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir."
"I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall,"
"Good luck, Harry,"
"To Harry Potter — the boy who lived!"
"Up! Get up! Now!"
"Up!"
"Are you up yet?"
"Nearly,"
"Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday."
"What did you say?"
"Nothing, nothing . . ."
"In the car crash when your parents died,” she had said. “And don’t ask questions."
"Comb your hair!"
"Thirty-six,” he said, looking up at his mother and father. “That’s two less than last year."
"Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present, see, it’s here under this big one from Mummy and Daddy."
"All right, thirty-seven then,"
"And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out today. How’s that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right?"
"So I’ll have thirty . . . thirty . . ."
"Thirty-nine, sweetums,"
"Oh.” Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. “All right then."
"Little tyke wants his money’s worth, just like his father. ’Atta boy, Dudley!"
"Bad news, Vernon,” she said. “Mrs. Figg’s broken her leg. She can’t take him."
"Now what?"
"We could phone Marge,"
"Don’t be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy."
"What about what’s-her-name, your friend — Yvonne?"
"On vacation in Majorca,"
"You could just leave me here,"
"And come back and find the house in ruins?"
"I won’t blow up the house,"
"I suppose we could take him to the zoo,” said Aunt Petunia slowly, “. . . and leave him in the car. . . ."
"That car’s new, he’s not sitting in it alone. . . ."
"Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him spoil your special day!"
"I . . . don’t . . . want . . . him . . . t-t-to come!” Dudley yelled between huge, pretend sobs. “He always sp-spoils everything!"
"Oh, good Lord, they’re here!"
"I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large purple face right up close to Harry’s, “I’m warning you now, boy — any funny business, anything at all — and you’ll be in that cupboard from now until Christmas."
"I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, “honestly . . ."
"to hide that horrible scar."
". . . roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,"
"I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry, remembering suddenly. “It was flying."
"MOTORCYCLES DON’T FLY!"
"I know they don’t,” said Harry. “It was only a dream."
"Make it move,"
"Do it again,"
"This is boring,"
"I get that all the time."
"I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn’t sure the snake could hear him. “It must be really annoying."
"Where do you come from, anyway?"
"Was it nice there?"
"Oh, I see — so you’ve never been to Brazil?"
"DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU WON’T BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING!"
"Out of the way, you,"
"Brazil, here I come. . . . Thanksss, amigo."
"But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass go?"
"Harry was talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?"
"Go — cupboard — stay — no meals,"
"They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall,” he told Harry. “Want to come upstairs and practice?"
"No, thanks,” said Harry. “The poor toilet’s never had anything as horrible as your head down it — it might be sick."
"What’s this?"
"Your new school uniform,"
"Oh,” he said, “I didn’t realize it had to be so wet."
"Don’t be stupid,” snapped Aunt Petunia. “I’m dyeing some of Dudley’s old things gray for you. It’ll look just like everyone else’s when I’ve finished."
"Get the mail, Dudley,"
"Make Harry get it."
"Get the mail, Harry."
"Make Dudley get it."
"Poke him with your Smelting stick, Dudley."
"Hurry up, boy!” shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. “What are you doing, checking for letter bombs?"
"Marge’s ill,” he informed Aunt Petunia. “Ate a funny whelk . . ."
"Dad!” said Dudley suddenly. “Dad, Harry’s got something!"
"That’s mine!"
"Who’d be writing to you?"
"P-P-Petunia!"
"Vernon! Oh my goodness — Vernon!"
"I want to read that letter,"
"I want to read it,” said Harry furiously, “as it’s mine."
"Get out, both of you,"
"I WANT MY LETTER!"
"Let me see it!"
"OUT!"
"Vernon,” Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, “look at the address — how could they possibly know where he sleeps? You don’t think they’re watching the house?"
"Watching — spying — might be following us,"
"But what should we do, Vernon? Should we write back? Tell them we don’t want —"
"No,” he said finally. “No, we’ll ignore it. If they don’t get an answer. . . . Yes, that’s best . . . we won’t do anything. . . ."
"But —"
"I’m not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn’t we swear when we took him in we’d stamp out that dangerous nonsense?"
"Where’s my letter?” said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon had squeezed through the door. “Who’s writing to me?"
"No one. It was addressed to you by mistake,” said Uncle Vernon shortly. “I have burned it."
"It was not a mistake,” said Harry angrily, “it had my cupboard on it."
"SILENCE!"
"Er — yes, Harry — about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have been thinking . . . you’re really getting a bit big for it . . . we think it might be nice if you moved into Dudley’s second bedroom."
"Why?"
"Don’t ask questions!” snapped his uncle. “Take this stuff upstairs, now."
"I don’t want him in there . . . I need that room . . . make him get out. . . ."
"There’s another one! ‘Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive —’"
"Go to your cupboard — I mean, your bedroom,” he wheezed at Harry. “Dudley — go — just go."
"AAAAARRRGH!"
"I want —"
"See,” he explained to Aunt Petunia through a mouthful of nails, “if they can’t deliver them they’ll just give up."
"I’m not sure that’ll work, Vernon."
"Oh, these people’s minds work in strange ways, Petunia, they’re not like you and me,"
"Tiptoe Through the Tulips"
"Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?"
"No post on Sundays,” he reminded them cheerfully as he spread marmalade on his newspapers, “no damn letters today —"
"Out! OUT!"
"That does it,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly but pulling great tufts out of his mustache at the same time. “I want you all back here in five minutes ready to leave. We’re going away. Just pack some clothes. No arguments!"
"Shake ’em off . . . shake ’em off,"
"’Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter? Only I got about an ’undred of these at the front desk."
"I’ll take them,"
"Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear?"
"Daddy’s gone mad, hasn’t he?"
"It’s Monday,” he told his mother. “The Great Humberto’s on tonight. I want to stay somewhere with a television."
"Found the perfect place!” he said. “Come on! Everyone out!"
"Storm forecast for tonight!” said Uncle Vernon gleefully, clapping his hands together. “And this gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us his boat!"
"I’ve already got us some rations,” said Uncle Vernon, “so all aboard!"
"Could do with some of those letters now, eh?"
"Where’s the cannon?"
"Who’s there?” he shouted. “I warn you — I’m armed!"
"Couldn’t make us a cup o’ tea, could yeh? It’s not been an easy journey. . . ."
"Budge up, yeh great lump,"
"An’ here’s Harry!"
"Las’ time I saw you, you was only a baby,” said the giant. “Yeh look a lot like yer dad, but yeh’ve got yer mum’s eyes."
"I demand that you leave at once, sir!” he said. “You are breaking and entering!"
"Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune,"
"Anyway — Harry,” said the giant, turning his back on the Dursleys, “a very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here — I mighta sat on it at some point, but it’ll taste all right."
"Who are you?"
"True, I haven’t introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts."
"What about that tea then, eh?” he said, rubbing his hands together. “I’d not say no ter summat stronger if yeh’ve got it, mind."
"Don’t touch anything he gives you, Dudley."
"Yer great puddin’ of a son don’ need fattenin’ anymore, Dursley, don’ worry."
"I’m sorry, but I still don’t really know who you are."
"Call me Hagrid,” he said, “everyone does. An’ like I told yeh, I’m Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts — yeh’ll know all about Hogwarts, o’ course."
"Er — no,"
"Sorry,"
"Sorry?” barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the Dursleys, who shrank back into the shadows. “It’s them as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren’t gettin’ yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn’t even know abou’ Hogwarts, fer cryin’ out loud! Did yeh never wonder where yer parents learned it all?"
"All what?"
"ALL WHAT?” Hagrid thundered. “Now wait jus’ one second!"
"Do you mean ter tell me,” he growled at the Dursleys, “that this boy — this boy! — knows nothin’ abou’— about ANYTHING?"
"I know some things,” he said. “I can, you know, do math and stuff."
"About our world, I mean. Your world. My world. Yer parents’ world."
"What world?"
"DURSLEY!"
"Mimblewimble."
"But yeh must know about yer mum and dad,” he said. “I mean, they’re famous. You’re famous."
"What? My — my mum and dad weren’t famous, were they?"
"Yeh don’ know . . . yeh don’ know . . ."
"Yeh don’ know what yeh are?"
"Stop!” he commanded. “Stop right there, sir! I forbid you to tell the boy anything!"
"You never told him? Never told him what was in the letter Dumbledore left fer him? I was there! I saw Dumbledore leave it, Dursley! An’ you’ve kept it from him all these years?"
"Kept what from me?"
"STOP! I FORBID YOU!"
"Ah, go boil yer heads, both of yeh,” said Hagrid. “Harry — yer a wizard."
"I’m a what?"
"A wizard, o’ course,” said Hagrid, sitting back down on the sofa, which groaned and sank even lower, “an’ a thumpin’ good’un, I’d say, once yeh’ve been trained up a bit. With a mum an’ dad like yours, what else would yeh be? An’ I reckon it’s abou’ time yeh read yer letter."
"What does it mean, they await my owl?"
"Gallopin’ Gorgons, that reminds me,"
"Where was I?"
"He’s not going,"
"I’d like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him,"
"A what?"
"A Muggle,” said Hagrid, “it’s what we call nonmagic folk like them. An’ it’s your bad luck you grew up in a family o’ the biggest Muggles I ever laid eyes on."
"We swore when we took him in we’d put a stop to that rubbish,” said Uncle Vernon, “swore we’d stamp it out of him! Wizard indeed!"
"You knew?” said Harry. “You knew I’m a — a wizard?"
"Knew!” shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. “Knew! Of course we knew! How could you not be, my dratted sister being what she was? Oh, she got a letter just like that and disappeared off to that — that school — and came home every vacation with her pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacups into rats. I was the only one who saw her for what she was — a freak! But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this and Lily that, they were proud of having a witch in the family!"
"Then she met that Potter at school and they left and got married and had you, and of course I knew you’d be just the same, just as strange, just as — as — abnormal — and then, if you please, she went and got herself blown up and we got landed with you!"
"Blown up? You told me they died in a car crash!"
"CAR CRASH!” roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily that the Dursleys scuttled back to their corner. “How could a car crash kill Lily an’ James Potter? It’s an outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not knowin’ his own story when every kid in our world knows his name!"
"But why? What happened?"
"I never expected this,” he said, in a low, worried voice. “I had no idea, when Dumbledore told me there might be trouble gettin’ hold of yeh, how much yeh didn’t know. Ah, Harry, I don’ know if I’m the right person ter tell yeh — but someone’s gotta — yeh can’t go off ter Hogwarts not knowin’."
"Well, it’s best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh — mind, I can’t tell yeh everythin’, it’s a great myst’ry, parts of it. . . ."
"It begins, I suppose, with — with a person called — but it’s incredible yeh don’t know his name, everyone in our world knows —"
"Who?"
"Well — I don’ like sayin’ the name if I can help it. No one does."
"Why not?"
"Gulpin’ gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared. Blimey, this is difficult. See, there was this wizard who went . . . bad. As bad as you could go. Worse. Worse than worse. His name was . . ."
"Could you write it down?"
"Nah — can’t spell it. All right — Voldemort."
"Maybe he thought he could persuade ’em . . . maybe he just wanted ’em outta the way. All anyone knows is, he turned up in the village where you was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a year old. He came ter yer house an’— an’— "
"Sorry,"
"You-Know-Who killed ’em. An’ then — an’ this is the real myst’ry of the thing — he tried to kill you, too. Wanted ter make a clean job of it, I suppose, or maybe he just liked killin’ by then. But he couldn’t do it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer forehead? That was no ordinary cut. That’s what yeh get when a powerful, evil curse touches yeh — took care of yer mum an’ dad an’ yer house, even — but it didn’t work on you, an’ that’s why yer famous, Harry. No one ever lived after he decided ter kill ’em, no one except you, an’ he’d killed some o’ the best witches an’ wizards of the age — the McKinnons, the Bones, the Prewetts — an’ you was only a baby, an’ you lived."
"Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Dumbledore’s orders. Brought yeh ter this lot . . ."
"Load of old tosh,"
"Now, you listen here, boy,” he snarled, “I accept there’s something strange about you, probably nothing a good beating wouldn’t have cured — and as for all this about your parents, well, they were weirdos, no denying it, and the world’s better off without them in my opinion — asked for all they got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types — just what I expected, always knew they’d come to a sticky end —"
"I’m warning you, Dursley — I’m warning you — one more word . . ."
"That’s better,"
"But what happened to Vol-, sorry — I mean, You-Know-Who?"
"Most of us reckon he’s still out there somewhere but lost his powers. Too weak to carry on. ’Cause somethin’ about you finished him, Harry. There was somethin’ goin’ on that night he hadn’t counted on — I dunno what it was, no one does — but somethin’ about you stumped him, all right."
"Hagrid,” he said quietly, “I think you must have made a mistake. I don’t think I can be a wizard."
"Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was scared or angry?"
"See?” said Hagrid. “Harry Potter, not a wizard — you wait, you’ll be right famous at Hogwarts."
"Haven’t I told you he’s not going?” he hissed. “He’s going to Stonewall High and he’ll be grateful for it. I’ve read those letters and he needs all sorts of rubbish — spell books and wands and —"
"If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop him,” growled Hagrid. “Stop Lily an’ James Potter’s son goin’ ter Hogwarts! Yer mad. His name’s been down ever since he was born. He’s off ter the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and he won’t know himself. He’ll be with youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an’ he’ll be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had, Albus Dumbled —"
"I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL TO TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!"
"NEVER —” he thundered, “— INSULT — ALBUS — DUMBLEDORE — IN — FRONT — OF — ME!"
"Shouldn’ta lost me temper,” he said ruefully, “but it didn’t work anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he was so much like a pig anyway there wasn’t much left ter do."
"Be grateful if yeh didn’t mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts,” he said. “I’m — er — not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin’. I was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an’ get yer letters to yeh an’ stuff — one o’ the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job —"
"Why aren’t you supposed to do magic?"
"Oh, well — I was at Hogwarts meself but I — er — got expelled, ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in half an’ everything. But Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great man, Dumbledore."
"Why were you expelled?"
"It’s gettin’ late and we’ve got lots ter do tomorrow,” said Hagrid loudly. “Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an’ that."
"You can kip under that,” he said. “Don’ mind if it wriggles a bit, I think I still got a couple o’ dormice in one o’ the pockets."
"It was a dream,” he told himself firmly. “I dreamed a giant called Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a school for wizards. When I open my eyes I’ll be at home in my cupboard."
"All right,” Harry mumbled, “I’m getting up."
"Don’t do that."
"Hagrid!” said Harry loudly. “There’s an owl —"
"Pay him,"
"What?"
"He wants payin’ fer deliverin’ the paper. Look in the pockets."
"Give him five Knuts,"
"Knuts?"
"The little bronze ones."
"Best be off, Harry, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter London an’ buy all yer stuff fer school."
"Um — Hagrid?"
"Mm?"
"I haven’t got any money — and you heard Uncle Vernon last night . . . he won’t pay for me to go and learn magic."
"Don’t worry about that,” said Hagrid, standing up and scratching his head. “D’yeh think yer parents didn’t leave yeh anything?"
"But if their house was destroyed —"
"They didn’ keep their gold in the house, boy! Nah, first stop fer us is Gringotts. Wizards’ bank. Have a sausage, they’re not bad cold — an’ I wouldn’ say no teh a bit o’ yer birthday cake, neither."
"Wizards have banks?"
"Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins."
"Goblins?"
"Yeah — so yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it, I’ll tell yeh that. Never mess with goblins, Harry. Gringotts is the safest place in the world fer anything yeh want ter keep safe —’cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o’ fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway. Fer Dumbledore. Hogwarts business."
"Got everythin’? Come on, then."
"How did you get here?"
"Flew,"
"Flew?"
"Yeah — but we’ll go back in this. Not s’pposed ter use magic now I’ve got yeh."
"Seems a shame ter row, though,” said Hagrid, giving Harry another of his sideways looks. “If I was ter — er — speed things up a bit, would yeh mind not mentionin’ it at Hogwarts?"
"Of course not,"
"Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?"
"Spells — enchantments,” said Hagrid, unfolding his newspaper as he spoke. “They say there’s dragons guardin’ the high-security vaults. And then yeh gotta find yer way — Gringotts is hundreds of miles under London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh’d die of hunger tryin’ ter get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat."
"Ministry o’ Magic messin’ things up as usual,"
"There’s a Ministry of Magic?"
"’Course,” said Hagrid. “They wanted Dumbledore fer Minister, o’ course, but he’d never leave Hogwarts, so old Cornelius Fudge got the job. Bungler if ever there was one. So he pelts Dumbledore with owls every morning, askin’ fer advice."
"But what does a Ministry of Magic do?"
"Well, their main job is to keep it from the Muggles that there’s still witches an’ wizards up an’ down the country."
"Why?"
"Why? Blimey, Harry, everyone’d be wantin’ magic solutions to their problems. Nah, we’re best left alone."
"See that, Harry? Things these Muggles dream up, eh?"
"Hagrid,” said Harry, panting a bit as he ran to keep up, “did you say there are dragons at Gringotts?"
"Well, so they say,” said Hagrid. “Crikey, I’d like a dragon."
"You’d like one?"
"Wanted one ever since I was a kid — here we go."
"Muggle money,"
"Still got yer letter, Harry?"
"Good,” said Hagrid. “There’s a list there of everything yeh need."
"Can we buy all this in London?"
"If yeh know where to go,"
"I don’t know how the Muggles manage without magic,"
"This is it,” said Hagrid, coming to a halt, “the Leaky Cauldron. It’s a famous place."
"The usual, Hagrid?"
"Can’t, Tom, I’m on Hogwarts business,"
"Good Lord,” said the bartender, peering at Harry, “is this — can this be — ?"
"Bless my soul,” whispered the old bartender, “Harry Potter . . . what an honor."
"Welcome back, Mr. Potter, welcome back."
"Doris Crockford, Mr. Potter, can’t believe I’m meeting you at last."
"So proud, Mr. Potter, I’m just so proud."
"Always wanted to shake your hand — I’m all of a flutter."
"Delighted, Mr. Potter, just can’t tell you, Diggle’s the name, Dedalus Diggle."
"I’ve seen you before!” said Harry, as Dedalus Diggle’s top hat fell off in his excitement. “You bowed to me once in a shop."
"He remembers!” cried Dedalus Diggle, looking around at everyone. “Did you hear that? He remembers me!"
"Professor Quirrell!” said Hagrid. “Harry, Professor Quirrell will be one of your teachers at Hogwarts."
"P-P-Potter,” stammered Professor Quirrell, grasping Harry’s hand, “c-can’t t-tell you how p-pleased I am to meet you."
"What sort of magic do you teach, Professor Quirrell?"
"D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts,” muttered Professor Quirrell, as though he’d rather not think about it. “N-not that you n-need it, eh, P-P-Potter?” He laughed nervously. “You’ll be g-getting all your equipment, I suppose? I’ve g-got to p-pick up a new b-book on vampires, m-myself."
"Must get on — lots ter buy. Come on, Harry."
"Told yeh, didn’t I? Told yeh you was famous. Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind you, he’s usually tremblin’."
"Is he always that nervous?"
"Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. He was fine while he was studyin’ outta books but then he took a year off ter get some first-hand experience. . . . They say he met vampires in the Black Forest, and there was a nasty bit o’ trouble with a hag — never been the same since. Scared of the students, scared of his own subject — now, where’s me umbrella?"
"Three up . . . two across . . .” he muttered. “Right, stand back, Harry."
"Welcome,” said Hagrid, “to Diagon Alley."
"Yeah, you’ll be needin’ one,” said Hagrid, “but we gotta get yer money first."
"Dragon liver, sixteen Sickles an ounce, they’re mad. . . ."
"Look,” Harry heard one of them say, “the new Nimbus Two Thousand — fastest ever —"
"Gringotts,"
"Yeah, that’s a goblin,"
"Like I said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it,"
"Morning,” said Hagrid to a free goblin. “We’ve come ter take some money outta Mr. Harry Potter’s safe."
"You have his key, sir?"
"Got it here somewhere,"
"Got it,"
"That seems to be in order."
"An’ I’ve also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore,” said Hagrid importantly, throwing out his chest. “It’s about the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen."
"Very well,” he said, handing it back to Hagrid, “I will have someone take you down to both vaults. Griphook!"
"What’s the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen?"
"Can’t tell yeh that,” said Hagrid mysteriously. “Very secret. Hogwarts business. Dumbledore’s trusted me. More’n my job’s worth ter tell yeh that."
"I never know,” Harry called to Hagrid over the noise of the cart, “what’s the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite?"
"Stalagmite’s got an ‘m’ in it,” said Hagrid. “An’ don’ ask me questions just now, I think I’m gonna be sick."
"All yours,"
"The gold ones are Galleons,” he explained. “Seventeen silver Sickles to a Galleon and twenty-nine Knuts to a Sickle, it’s easy enough. Right, that should be enough fer a couple o’ terms, we’ll keep the rest safe for yeh.” He turned to Griphook. “Vault seven hundred and thirteen now, please, and can we go more slowly?"
"One speed only,"
"Stand back,"
"If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that, they’d be sucked through the door and trapped in there,"
"How often do you check to see if anyone’s inside?"
"About once every ten years,"
"Come on, back in this infernal cart, and don’t talk to me on the way back, it’s best if I keep me mouth shut,"
"Might as well get yer uniform,” said Hagrid, nodding toward Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Occasions. “Listen, Harry, would yeh mind if I slipped off fer a pick-me-up in the Leaky Cauldron? I hate them Gringotts carts."
"Hogwarts, dear?” she said, when Harry started to speak. “Got the lot here — another young man being fitted up just now, in fact."
"Hello,” said the boy, “Hogwarts, too?"
"Yes,"
"My father’s next door buying my books and Mother’s up the street looking at wands,” said the boy. He had a bored, drawling voice. “Then I’m going to drag them off to look at racing brooms. I don’t see why first years can’t have their own. I think I’ll bully Father into getting me one and I’ll smuggle it in somehow."
"Have you got your own broom?"
"No,"
"Play Quidditch at all?"
"No,"
"I do — Father says it’s a crime if I’m not picked to play for my House, and I must say, I agree. Know what House you’ll be in yet?"
"No,"
"Well, no one really knows until they get there, do they, but I know I’ll be in Slytherin, all our family have been — imagine being in Hufflepuff, I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?"
"Mmm,"
"I say, look at that man!"
"That’s Hagrid,” said Harry, pleased to know something the boy didn’t. “He works at Hogwarts."
"Oh,” said the boy, “I’ve heard of him. He’s a sort of servant, isn’t he?"
"He’s the gamekeeper,"
"Yes, exactly. I heard he’s a sort of savage — lives in a hut on the school grounds and every now and then he gets drunk, tries to do magic, and ends up setting fire to his bed."
"I think he’s brilliant,"
"Do you?” said the boy, with a slight sneer. “Why is he with you? Where are your parents?"
"They’re dead,"
"Oh, sorry,” said the other, not sounding sorry at all. “But they were our kind, weren’t they?"
"They were a witch and wizard, if that’s what you mean."
"I really don’t think they should let the other sort in, do you? They’re just not the same, they’ve never been brought up to know our ways. Some of them have never even heard of Hogwarts until they get the letter, imagine. I think they should keep it in the old wizarding families. What’s your surname, anyway?"
"That’s you done, my dear,"
"Well, I’ll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose,"
"What’s up?"
"Nothing,” Harry lied. They stopped to buy parchment and quills. Harry cheered up a bit when he found a bottle of ink that changed color as you wrote. When they had left the shop, he said, “Hagrid, what’s Quidditch?"
"Blimey, Harry, I keep forgettin’ how little yeh know — not knowin’ about Quidditch!"
"Don’t make me feel worse,"
"— and he said people from Muggle families shouldn’t even be allowed in —"
"Yer not from a Muggle family. If he’d known who yeh were — he’s grown up knowin’ yer name if his parents are wizardin’ folk. You saw what everyone in the Leaky Cauldron was like when they saw yeh. Anyway, what does he know about it, some o’ the best I ever saw were the only ones with magic in ’em in a long line o’ Muggles — look at yer mum! Look what she had fer a sister!"
"So what is Quidditch?"
"It’s our sport. Wizard sport. It’s like — like soccer in the Muggle world — everyone follows Quidditch — played up in the air on broomsticks and there’s four balls — sorta hard ter explain the rules."
"And what are Slytherin and Hufflepuff?"
"School Houses. There’s four. Everyone says Hufflepuff are a lot o’ duffers, but —"
"I bet I’m in Hufflepuff,"
"Better Hufflepuff than Slytherin,” said Hagrid darkly. “There’s not a single witch or wizard who went bad who wasn’t in Slytherin. You-Know-Who was one."
"Vol-, sorry — You-Know-Who was at Hogwarts?"
"Years an’ years ago,"
"I was trying to find out how to curse Dudley."
"I’m not sayin’ that’s not a good idea, but yer not ter use magic in the Muggle world except in very special circumstances,” said Hagrid. “An’ anyway, yeh couldn’ work any of them curses yet, yeh’ll need a lot more study before yeh get ter that level."
"It says pewter on yer list"
"Just yer wand left — oh yeah, an’ I still haven’t got yeh a birthday present."
"You don’t have to —"
"I know I don’t have to. Tell yeh what, I’ll get yer animal. Not a toad, toads went outta fashion years ago, yeh’d be laughed at — an’ I don’ like cats, they make me sneeze. I’ll get yer an owl. All the kids want owls, they’re dead useful, carry yer mail an’ everythin’."
"Don’ mention it,” said Hagrid gruffly. “Don’ expect you’ve had a lotta presents from them Dursleys. Just Ollivanders left now — only place fer wands, Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand."
"Good afternoon,"
"Hello,"
"Ah yes,” said the man. “Yes, yes. I thought I’d be seeing you soon. Harry Potter.” It wasn’t a question. “You have your mother’s eyes. It seems only yesterday she was in here herself, buying her first wand. Ten and a quarter inches long, swishy, made of willow. Nice wand for charm work."
"Your father, on the other hand, favored a mahogany wand. Eleven inches. Pliable. A little more power and excellent for transfiguration. Well, I say your father favored it — it’s really the wand that chooses the wizard, of course."
"And that’s where . . ."
"I’m sorry to say I sold the wand that did it,” he said softly. “Thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Powerful wand, very powerful, and in the wrong hands . . . well, if I’d known what that wand was going out into the world to do. . . ."
"Rubeus! Rubeus Hagrid! How nice to see you again. . . . Oak, sixteen inches, rather bendy, wasn’t it?"
"It was, sir, yes,"
"Good wand, that one. But I suppose they snapped it in half when you got expelled?"
"Er — yes, they did, yes,” said Hagrid, shuffling his feet. “I’ve still got the pieces, though,"
"But you don’t use them?"
"Oh, no, sir,"
"Hmmm,” said Mr. Ollivander, giving Hagrid a piercing look. “Well, now — Mr. Potter. Let me see.” He pulled a long tape measure with silver markings out of his pocket. “Which is your wand arm?"
"Er — well, I’m right-handed,"
"Hold out your arm. That’s it.” He measured Harry from shoulder to finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpit and round his head. As he measured, he said, “Every Ollivander wand has a core of a powerful magical substance, Mr. Potter. We use unicorn hairs, phoenix tail feathers, and the heartstrings of dragons. No two Ollivander wands are the same, just as no two unicorns, dragons, or phoenixes are quite the same. And of course, you will never get such good results with another wizard’s wand."
"That will do,” he said, and the tape measure crumpled into a heap on the floor. “Right then, Mr. Potter. Try this one. Beechwood and dragon heartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. Just take it and give it a wave."
"Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inches. Quite whippy. Try —"
"No, no — here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a half inches, springy. Go on, go on, try it out."
"Tricky customer, eh? Not to worry, we’ll find the perfect match here somewhere — I wonder, now — yes, why not — unusual combination — holly and phoenix feather, eleven inches, nice and supple."
"Oh, bravo! Yes, indeed, oh, very good. Well, well, well . . . how curious . . . how very curious . . ."
"Curious . . . curious . . ."
"Sorry,” said Harry, “but what’s curious?"
"I remember every wand I’ve ever sold, Mr. Potter. Every single wand. It so happens that the phoenix whose tail feather is in your wand, gave another feather — just one other. It is very curious indeed that you should be destined for this wand when its brother — why, its brother gave you that scar."
"Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed how these things happen. The wand chooses the wizard, remember. . . . I think we must expect great things from you, Mr. Potter. . . . After all, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named did great things — terrible, yes, but great."
"Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves,"
"You all right, Harry? Yer very quiet,"
"Everyone thinks I’m special,” he said at last. “All those people in the Leaky Cauldron, Professor Quirrell, Mr. Ollivander . . . but I don’t know anything about magic at all. How can they expect great things? I’m famous and I can’t even remember what I’m famous for. I don’t know what happened when Vol-, sorry — I mean, the night my parents died."
"Don’ you worry, Harry. You’ll learn fast enough. Everyone starts at the beginning at Hogwarts, you’ll be just fine. Just be yerself. I know it’s hard. Yeh’ve been singled out, an’ that’s always hard. But yeh’ll have a great time at Hogwarts — I did — still do, ’smatter of fact."
"Yer ticket fer Hogwarts,” he said. “First o’ September — King’s Cross — it’s all on yer ticket. Any problems with the Dursleys, send me a letter with yer owl, she’ll know where to find me. . . . See yeh soon, Harry."
"Er — Uncle Vernon?"
"Er — I need to be at King’s Cross tomorrow to — to go to Hogwarts."
"Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?"
"Thank you."
"Funny way to get to a wizards’ school, the train. Magic carpets all got punctures, have they?"
"Where is this school, anyway?"
"I don’t know,"
"I just take the train from platform nine and three-quarters at eleven o’clock,"
"Platform what?"
"Nine and three-quarters."
"Don’t talk rubbish,” said Uncle Vernon. “There is no platform nine and three-quarters."
"It’s on my ticket."
"Barking,” said Uncle Vernon, “howling mad, the lot of them. You’ll see. You just wait. All right, we’ll take you to King’s Cross. We’re going up to London tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn’t bother."
"Why are you going to London?"
"Taking Dudley to the hospital,” growled Uncle Vernon. “Got to have that ruddy tail removed before he goes to Smeltings."
"Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine — platform ten. Your platform should be somewhere in the middle, but they don’t seem to have built it yet, do they?"
"Have a good term,"
"— packed with Muggles, of course —"
"Now, what’s the platform number?"
"Nine and three-quarters!” piped a small girl, also red-headed, who was holding her hand. “Mum, can’t I go . . ."
"You’re not old enough, Ginny, now be quiet. All right, Percy, you go first."
"Fred, you next,"
"I’m not Fred, I’m George,” said the boy. “Honestly, woman, you call yourself our mother? Can’t you tell I’m George?"
"Sorry, George, dear."
"Only joking, I am Fred,"
"Excuse me,"
"Hello, dear,” she said. “First time at Hogwarts? Ron’s new, too."
"Yes,” said Harry. “The thing is — the thing is, I don’t know how to —"
"How to get onto the platform?"
"Not to worry,” she said. “All you have to do is walk straight at the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Don’t stop and don’t be scared you’ll crash into it, that’s very important. Best do it at a bit of a run if you’re nervous. Go on, go now before Ron."
"Er — okay,"
"Gran, I’ve lost my toad again."
"Oh, Neville,"
"Give us a look, Lee, go on."
"Want a hand?"
"Yes, please,"
"Oy, Fred! C’mere and help!"
"Thanks,"
"What’s that?"
"Blimey,” said the other twin. “Are you — ?"
"He is,” said the first twin. “Aren’t you?"
"What?"
"Harry Potter,"
"Oh, him,” said Harry. “I mean, yes, I am."
"Fred? George? Are you there?"
"Coming, Mum."
"Ron, you’ve got something on your nose."
"Mum — geroff."
"Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on his nosie?"
"Shut up,"
"Where’s Percy?"
"He’s coming now."
"Can’t stay long, Mother,” he said. “I’m up front, the prefects have got two compartments to themselves —"
"Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?” said one of the twins, with an air of great surprise. “You should have said something, we had no idea."
"Hang on, I think I remember him saying something about it,” said the other twin. “Once —"
"Or twice —"
"A minute —"
"All summer —"
"Oh, shut up,"
"How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?"
"Because he’s a prefect,” said their mother fondly. “All right, dear, well, have a good term — send me an owl when you get there."
"Now, you two — this year, you behave yourselves. If I get one more owl telling me you’ve — you’ve blown up a toilet or —"
"Blown up a toilet? We’ve never blown up a toilet."
"Great idea though, thanks, Mum."
"It’s not funny. And look after Ron."
"Don’t worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us."
"Shut up,"
"Hey, Mum, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?"
"You know that black-haired boy who was near us in the station? Know who he is?"
"Who?"
"Harry Potter!"
"Oh, Mum, can I go on the train and see him, Mum, oh please. . . ."
"You’ve already seen him, Ginny, and the poor boy isn’t something you goggle at in a zoo. Is he really, Fred? How do you know?"
"Asked him. Saw his scar. It’s really there — like lightning."
"Poor dear — no wonder he was alone, I wondered. He was ever so polite when he asked how to get onto the platform."
"Never mind that, do you think he remembers what You-Know-Who looks like?"
"I forbid you to ask him, Fred. No, don’t you dare. As though he needs reminding of that on his first day at school."
"All right, keep your hair on."
"Hurry up!"
"Don’t, Ginny, we’ll send you loads of owls."
"We’ll send you a Hogwarts toilet seat."
"George!"
"Only joking, Mum."
"Anyone sitting there?” he asked, pointing at the seat opposite Harry. “Everywhere else is full."
"Hey, Ron."
"Listen, we’re going down the middle of the train — Lee Jordan’s got a giant tarantula down there."
"Right,"
"Harry,” said the other twin, “did we introduce ourselves? Fred and George Weasley. And this is Ron, our brother. See you later, then."
"Bye,"
"Are you really Harry Potter?"
"Oh — well, I thought it might be one of Fred and George’s jokes,” said Ron. “And have you really got — you know . . ."
"So that’s where You-Know-Who — ?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “but I can’t remember it."
"Nothing?"
"Well — I remember a lot of green light, but nothing else."
"Wow,"
"Are all your family wizards?"
"Er — yes, I think so,” said Ron. “I think Mum’s got a second cousin who’s an accountant, but we never talk about him."
"So you must know loads of magic already."
"I heard you went to live with Muggles,” said Ron. “What are they like?"
"Horrible — well, not all of them. My aunt and uncle and cousin are, though. Wish I’d had three wizard brothers."
"Five,” said Ron. For some reason, he was looking gloomy. “I’m the sixth in our family to go to Hogwarts. You could say I’ve got a lot to live up to. Bill and Charlie have already left — Bill was head boy and Charlie was captain of Quidditch. Now Percy’s a prefect. Fred and George mess around a lot, but they still get really good marks and everyone thinks they’re really funny. Everyone expects me to do as well as the others, but if I do, it’s no big deal, because they did it first. You never get anything new, either, with five brothers. I’ve got Bill’s old robes, Charlie’s old wand, and Percy’s old rat."
"His name’s Scabbers and he’s useless, he hardly ever wakes up. Percy got an owl from my dad for being made a prefect, but they couldn’t aff — I mean, I got Scabbers instead."
". . . and until Hagrid told me, I didn’t know anything about being a wizard or about my parents or Voldemort —"
"What?"
"You said You-Know-Who’s name!” said Ron, sounding both shocked and impressed. “I’d have thought you, of all people —"
"I’m not trying to be brave or anything, saying the name,” said Harry, “I just never knew you shouldn’t. See what I mean? I’ve got loads to learn. . . . I bet,” he added, voicing for the first time something that had been worrying him a lot lately, “I bet I’m the worst in the class."
"You won’t be. There’s loads of people who come from Muggle families and they learn quick enough."
"Anything off the cart, dears?"
"Hungry, are you?"
"Starving,"
"She always forgets I don’t like corned beef."
"Swap you for one of these,” said Harry, holding up a pasty. “Go on —"
"You don’t want this, it’s all dry,” said Ron. “She hasn’t got much time,” he added quickly, “you know, with five of us."
"Go on, have a pasty,"
"What are these?” Harry asked Ron, holding up a pack of Chocolate Frogs. “They’re not really frogs, are they?"
"No,” said Ron. “But see what the card is. I’m missing Agrippa."
"What?"
"Oh, of course, you wouldn’t know — Chocolate Frogs have cards inside them, you know, to collect — famous witches and wizards. I’ve got about five hundred, but I haven’t got Agrippa or Ptolemy."
"So this is Dumbledore!"
"Don’t tell me you’d never heard of Dumbledore!” said Ron. “Can I have a frog? I might get Agrippa — thanks —"
"He’s gone!"
"Well, you can’t expect him to hang around all day,” said Ron. “He’ll be back. No, I’ve got Morgana again and I’ve got about six of her . . . do you want it? You can start collecting."
"Help yourself,” said Harry. “But in, you know, the Muggle world, people just stay put in photos."
"Do they? What, they don’t move at all?” Ron sounded amazed. “Weird!"
"You want to be careful with those,” Ron warned Harry. “When they say every flavor, they mean every flavor — you know, you get all the ordinary ones like chocolate and peppermint and marmalade, but then you can get spinach and liver and tripe. George reckons he had a booger-flavored one once."
"Bleaaargh — see? Sprouts."
"Sorry,” he said, “but have you seen a toad at all?"
"I’ve lost him! He keeps getting away from me!"
"He’ll turn up,"
"Yes,” said the boy miserably. “Well, if you see him . . ."
"Don’t know why he’s so bothered,” said Ron. “If I’d brought a toad I’d lose it as quick as I could. Mind you, I brought Scabbers, so I can’t talk."
"He might have died and you wouldn’t know the difference,” said Ron in disgust. “I tried to turn him yellow yesterday to make him more interesting, but the spell didn’t work. I’ll show you, look . . ."
"Unicorn hair’s nearly poking out. Anyway —"
"Has anyone seen a toad? Neville’s lost one,"
"We’ve already told him we haven’t seen it,"
"Oh, are you doing magic? Let’s see it, then."
"Er — all right."
"Are you sure that’s a real spell?” said the girl. “Well, it’s not very good, is it? I’ve tried a few simple spells just for practice and it’s all worked for me. Nobody in my family’s magic at all, it was ever such a surprise when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of course, I mean, it’s the very best school of witchcraft there is, I’ve heard — I’ve learned all our course books by heart, of course, I just hope it will be enough — I’m Hermione Granger, by the way, who are you?"
"I’m Ron Weasley,"
"Harry Potter,"
"Are you really?” said Hermione. “I know all about you, of course — I got a few extra books for background reading, and you’re in Modern Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century."
"Am I?"
"Goodness, didn’t you know, I’d have found out everything I could if it was me,” said Hermione. “Do either of you know what House you’ll be in? I’ve been asking around, and I hope I’m in Gryffindor, it sounds by far the best; I hear Dumbledore himself was in it, but I suppose Ravenclaw wouldn’t be too bad. . . . Anyway, we’d better go and look for Neville’s toad. You two had better change, you know, I expect we’ll be there soon."
"Whatever House I’m in, I hope she’s not in it,” said Ron. He threw his wand back into his trunk. “Stupid spell — George gave it to me, bet he knew it was a dud."
"What House are your brothers in?"
"Gryffindor,” said Ron. Gloom seemed to be settling on him again. “Mum and Dad were in it, too. I don’t know what they’ll say if I’m not. I don’t suppose Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagine if they put me in Slytherin."
"That’s the House Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who was in?"
"Yeah,"
"You know, I think the ends of Scabbers’ whiskers are a bit lighter,” said Harry, trying to take Ron’s mind off Houses. “So what do your oldest brothers do now that they’ve left, anyway?"
"Charlie’s in Romania studying dragons, and Bill’s in Africa doing something for Gringotts,” said Ron. “Did you hear about Gringotts? It’s been all over the Daily Prophet, but I don’t suppose you get that with the Muggles — someone tried to rob a high security vault."
"Really? What happened to them?"
"Nothing, that’s why it’s such big news. They haven’t been caught. My dad says it must’ve been a powerful Dark wizard to get round Gringotts, but they don’t think they took anything, that’s what’s odd. ’Course, everyone gets scared when something like this happens in case You-Know-Who’s behind it."
"Voldemort"
"What’s your Quidditch team?"
"Er — I don’t know any,"
"What!” Ron looked dumbfounded. “Oh, you wait, it’s the best game in the world —"
"Is it true?” he said. “They’re saying all down the train that Harry Potter’s in this compartment. So it’s you, is it?"
"Yes,"
"Oh, this is Crabbe and this is Goyle,” said the pale boy carelessly, noticing where Harry was looking. “And my name’s Malfoy, Draco Malfoy."
"Think my name’s funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. My father told me all the Weasleys have red hair, freckles, and more children than they can afford."
"You’ll soon find out some wizarding families are much better than others, Potter. You don’t want to go making friends with the wrong sort. I can help you there."
"I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself, thanks,"
"I’d be careful if I were you, Potter,” he said slowly. “Unless you’re a bit politer you’ll go the same way as your parents. They didn’t know what was good for them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the Weasleys and that Hagrid, and it’ll rub off on you."
"Say that again,"
"Oh, you’re going to fight us, are you?"
"Unless you get out now,"
"But we don’t feel like leaving, do we, boys? We’ve eaten all our food and you still seem to have some."
"What has been going on?"
"I think he’s been knocked out,” Ron said to Harry. He looked closer at Scabbers. “No — I don’t believe it — he’s gone back to sleep."
"You’ve met Malfoy before?"
"I’ve heard of his family,” said Ron darkly. “They were some of the first to come back to our side after You-Know-Who disappeared. Said they’d been bewitched. My dad doesn’t believe it. He says Malfoy’s father didn’t need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side.” He turned to Hermione. “Can we help you with something?"
"You’d better hurry up and put your robes on, I’ve just been up to the front to ask the conductor, and he says we’re nearly there. You haven’t been fighting, have you? You’ll be in trouble before we even get there!"
"Scabbers has been fighting, not us,” said Ron, scowling at her. “Would you mind leaving while we change?"
"All right — I only came in here because people outside are behaving very childishly, racing up and down the corridors,” said Hermione in a sniffy voice. “And you’ve got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you know?"
"We will be reaching Hogwarts in five minutes’ time. Please leave your luggage on the train, it will be taken to the school separately."
"Firs’ years! Firs’ years over here! All right there, Harry?"
"C’mon, follow me — any more firs’ years? Mind yer step, now! Firs’ years follow me!"
"Yeh’ll get yer firs’ sight o’ Hogwarts in a sec,” Hagrid called over his shoulder, “jus’ round this bend here."
"Oooooh!"
"No more’n four to a boat!"
"Everyone in?” shouted Hagrid, who had a boat to himself. “Right then — FORWARD!"
"Heads down!"
"Oy, you there! Is this your toad?"
"Trevor!"
"Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?"
"The firs’ years, Professor McGonagall,"
"Thank you, Hagrid. I will take them from here."
"Welcome to Hogwarts,"
"The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the rest of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves up as much as you can while you are waiting."
"I shall return when we are ready for you,” said Professor McGonagall. “Please wait quietly."
"How exactly do they sort us into Houses?"
"Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but I think he was joking."
"What the — ?"
"Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give him a second chance —"
"My dear Friar, haven’t we given Peeves all the chances he deserves? He gives us all a bad name and you know, he’s not really even a ghost — I say, what are you all doing here?"
"New students!” said the Fat Friar, smiling around at them. “About to be Sorted, I suppose?"
"Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!” said the Friar. “My old House, you know."
"Move along now,” said a sharp voice. “The Sorting Ceremony’s about to start."
"Now, form a line,” Professor McGonagall told the first years, “and follow me."
"It’s bewitched to look like the sky outside. I read about it in Hogwarts: A History."
"So we’ve just got to try on the hat!” Ron whispered to Harry. “I’ll kill Fred, he was going on about wrestling a troll."
"When I call your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool to be sorted,” she said. “Abbott, Hannah!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Bones, Susan!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Boot, Terry!"
"RAVENCLAW!"
"Brocklehurst, Mandy” went to Ravenclaw too, but “Brown, Lavender"
"Bulstrode, Millicent"
"Finch-Fletchley, Justin!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Finnigan, Seamus,"
"Granger, Hermione!"
"GRYFFINDOR!"
"GRYFFINDOR,” Neville ran off still wearing it, and had to jog back amid gales of laughter to give it to “MacDougal, Morag."
"SLYTHERIN!"
"Moon” . . . , “Nott” . . . , “Parkinson” . . . , then a pair of twin girls, “Patil” and “Patil” . . . , then “Perks, Sally-Anne"
"Potter, Harry!"
"Potter, did she say?"
"The Harry Potter?"
"Hmm,” said a small voice in his ear. “Difficult. Very difficult. Plenty of courage, I see. Not a bad mind either. There’s talent, oh my goodness, yes — and a nice thirst to prove yourself, now that’s interesting. . . . So where shall I put you?"
"Not Slytherin, eh?” said the small voice. “Are you sure? You could be great, you know, it’s all here in your head, and Slytherin will help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that — no? Well, if you’re sure — better be GRYFFINDOR!"
"We got Potter! We got Potter!"
"Thomas, Dean,” a black boy even taller than Ron, joined Harry at the Gryffindor table. “Turpin, Lisa,” became a Ravenclaw and then it was Ron’s turn. He was pale green by now. Harry crossed his fingers under the table and a second later the hat had shouted, “GRYFFINDOR!"
"Well done, Ron, excellent,” said Percy Weasley pompously across Harry as “Zabini, Blaise,"
"Welcome!"
"Thank you!"
"Is he — a bit mad?"
"Mad?” said Percy airily. “He’s a genius! Best wizard in the world! But he is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes, Harry?"
"That does look good,"
"Can’t you — ?"
"I haven’t eaten for nearly five hundred years,” said the ghost. “I don’t need to, of course, but one does miss it. I don’t think I’ve introduced myself? Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your service. Resident ghost of Gryffindor Tower."
"I know who you are!” said Ron suddenly. “My brothers told me about you — you’re Nearly Headless Nick!"
"I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy —"
"Nearly Headless? How can you be nearly headless?"
"Like this,” he said irritably. He seized his left ear and pulled. His whole head swung off his neck and fell onto his shoulder as if it was on a hinge. Someone had obviously tried to behead him, but not done it properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on their faces, Nearly Headless Nick flipped his head back onto his neck, coughed, and said, “So — new Gryffindors! I hope you’re going to help us win the House Championship this year? Gryffindors have never gone so long without winning. Slytherins have got the Cup six years in a row! The Bloody Baron’s becoming almost unbearable — he’s the Slytherin ghost."
"How did he get covered in blood?"
"I’ve never asked,"
"I’m half-and-half,” said Seamus. “Me dad’s a Muggle. Mum didn’t tell him she was a witch ’til after they were married. Bit of a nasty shock for him."
"What about you, Neville?"
"Well, my gran brought me up and she’s a witch,” said Neville, “but the family thought I was all-Muggle for ages. My Great Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me off my guard and force some magic out of me — he pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly drowned — but nothing happened until I was eight. Great Uncle Algie came round for dinner, and he was hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles when my Great Auntie Enid offered him a meringue and he accidentally let go. But I bounced — all the way down the garden and into the road. They were all really pleased, Gran was crying, she was so happy. And you should have seen their faces when I got in here — they thought I might not be magic enough to come, you see. Great Uncle Algie was so pleased he bought me my toad."
"I do hope they start right away, there’s so much to learn, I’m particularly interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning something into something else, of course, it’s supposed to be very difficult —”; “You’ll be starting small, just matches into needles and that sort of thing —"
"Ouch!"
"What is it?"
"N-nothing."
"Who’s that teacher talking to Professor Quirrell?"
"Oh, you know Quirrell already, do you? No wonder he’s looking so nervous, that’s Professor Snape. He teaches Potions, but he doesn’t want to — everyone knows he’s after Quirrell’s job. Knows an awful lot about the Dark Arts, Snape."
"First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to all pupils. And a few of our older students would do well to remember that as well."
"And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to die a very painful death."
"He’s not serious?"
"Must be,” said Percy, frowning at Dumbledore. “It’s odd, because he usually gives us a reason why we’re not allowed to go somewhere — the forest’s full of dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think he might have told us prefects, at least."
"And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the school song!"
"Everyone pick their favorite tune,” said Dumbledore, “and off we go!"
"Ah, music,” he said, wiping his eyes. “A magic beyond all we do here! And now, bedtime. Off you trot!"
"Peeves,” Percy whispered to the first years. “A poltergeist.” He raised his voice, “Peeves — show yourself."
"Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron?"
"Oooooooh!” he said, with an evil cackle. “Ickle Firsties! What fun!"
"Go away, Peeves, or the Baron’ll hear about this, I mean it!"
"You want to watch out for Peeves,” said Percy, as they set off again. “The Bloody Baron’s the only one who can control him, he won’t even listen to us prefects. Here we are."
"Password?"
"Caput Draconis,"
"Great food, isn’t it?” Ron muttered to Harry through the hangings. “Get off, Scabbers! He’s chewing my sheets."
"Where?"
"Next to the tall kid with the red hair."
"Wearing the glasses?"
"Did you see his face?"
"Did you see his scar?"
"GOT YOUR CONK!"
"Transfiguration is some of the most complex and dangerous magic you will learn at Hogwarts,” she said. “Anyone messing around in my class will leave and not come back. You have been warned."
"What have we got today?"
"Double Potions with the Slytherins,” said Ron. “Snape’s Head of Slytherin House. They say he always favors them — we’ll be able to see if it’s true."
"Wish McGonagall favored us,"
"Ah, yes,” he said softly, “Harry Potter. Our new — celebrity."
"You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of potion-making,” he began. He spoke in barely more than a whisper, but they caught every word — like Professor McGonagall, Snape had the gift of keeping a class silent without effort. “As there is little foolish wand-waving here, many of you will hardly believe this is magic. I don’t expect you will really understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep through human veins, bewitching the mind, ensnaring the senses. . . . I can teach you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death — if you aren’t as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach."
"Potter!” said Snape suddenly. “What would I get if I added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?"
"I don’t know, sir,"
"Tut, tut — fame clearly isn’t everything."
"Let’s try again. Potter, where would you look if I told you to find me a bezoar?"
"I don’t know, sir."
"Thought you wouldn’t open a book before coming, eh, Potter?"
"What is the difference, Potter, between monkshood and wolfsbane?"
"I don’t know,” said Harry quietly. “I think Hermione does, though, why don’t you try her?"
"Sit down,” he snapped at Hermione. “For your information, Potter, asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from most poisons. As for monkshood and wolfsbane, they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of aconite. Well? Why aren’t you all copying that down?"
"And a point will be taken from Gryffindor House for your cheek, Potter."
"Idiot boy!” snarled Snape, clearing the spilled potion away with one wave of his wand. “I suppose you added the porcupine quills before taking the cauldron off the fire?"
"Take him up to the hospital wing,"
"You — Potter — why didn’t you tell him not to add the quills? Thought he’d make you look good if he got it wrong, did you? That’s another point you’ve lost for Gryffindor."
"Don’t push it,” he muttered, “I’ve heard Snape can turn very nasty."
"Cheer up,” said Ron, “Snape’s always taking points off Fred and George. Can I come and meet Hagrid with you?"
"Back, Fang — back."
"Hang on,” he said. “Back, Fang."
"Make yerselves at home,"
"This is Ron,"
"Another Weasley, eh?” said Hagrid, glancing at Ron’s freckles. “I spent half me life chasin’ yer twin brothers away from the forest."
"that old git."
"An’ as fer that cat, Mrs. Norris, I’d like ter introduce her to Fang sometime. D’yeh know, every time I go up ter the school, she follows me everywhere? Can’t get rid of her — Filch puts her up to it."
"But he seemed to really hate me."
"Rubbish!” said Hagrid. “Why should he?"
"How’s yer brother Charlie?” Hagrid asked Ron. “I liked him a lot — great with animals."
"But we’re not telling you what was in there, so keep your noses out if you know what’s good for you,"
"Hagrid!” said Harry, “that Gringotts break-in happened on my birthday! It might’ve been happening while we were there!"
"Typical,” said Harry darkly. “Just what I always wanted. To make a fool of myself on a broomstick in front of Malfoy."
"You don’t know that you’ll make a fool of yourself,” said Ron reasonably. “Anyway, I know Malfoy’s always going on about how good he is at Quidditch, but I bet that’s all talk."
"It’s a Remembrall!” he explained. “Gran knows I forget things — this tells you if there’s something you’ve forgotten to do. Look, you hold it tight like this and if it turns red — oh . . .” His face fell, because the Remembrall had suddenly glowed scarlet, “. . . you’ve forgotten something . . ."
"What’s going on?"
"Malfoy’s got my Remembrall, Professor."
"Just looking,"
"Well, what are you all waiting for?” she barked. “Everyone stand by a broomstick. Come on, hurry up."
"Stick out your right hand over your broom,” called Madam Hooch at the front, “and say ‘Up!’"
"UP!"
"Now, when I blow my whistle, you kick off from the ground, hard,” said Madam Hooch. “Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come straight back down by leaning forward slightly. On my whistle — three — two —"
"Come back, boy!"
"Broken wrist,” Harry heard her mutter. “Come on, boy — it’s all right, up you get."
"None of you is to move while I take this boy to the hospital wing! You leave those brooms where they are or you’ll be out of Hogwarts before you can say ‘Quidditch.’ Come on, dear."
"Did you see his face, the great lump?"
"Shut up, Malfoy,"
"Ooh, sticking up for Longbottom?” said Pansy Parkinson, a hard-faced Slytherin girl. “Never thought you’d like fat little crybabies, Parvati."
"Look!” said Malfoy, darting forward and snatching something out of the grass. “It’s that stupid thing Longbottom’s gran sent him."
"Give that here, Malfoy,"
"I think I’ll leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find — how about — up a tree?"
"Give it here!” Harry yelled, but Malfoy had leapt onto his broomstick and taken off. He hadn’t been lying, he could fly well. Hovering level with the topmost branches of an oak he called, “Come and get it, Potter!"
"No!” shouted Hermione Granger. “Madam Hooch told us not to move — you’ll get us all into trouble."
"Give it here,” Harry called, “or I’ll knock you off that broom!"
"Oh, yeah?"
"No Crabbe and Goyle up here to save your neck, Malfoy,"
"Catch it if you can, then!"
"HARRY POTTER!"
"Never — in all my time at Hogwarts —"
"— how dare you — might have broken your neck —"
"It wasn’t his fault, Professor —"
"Be quiet, Miss Patil —"
"But Malfoy —"
"That’s enough, Mr. Weasley. Potter, follow me, now."
"Excuse me, Professor Flitwick, could I borrow Wood for a moment?"
"Follow me, you two,"
"In here."
"Out, Peeves!"
"Potter, this is Oliver Wood. Wood — I’ve found you a Seeker."
"Are you serious, Professor?"
"Absolutely,” said Professor McGonagall crisply. “The boy’s a natural. I’ve never seen anything like it. Was that your first time on a broomstick, Potter?"
"He caught that thing in his hand after a fifty-foot dive,” Professor McGonagall told Wood. “Didn’t even scratch himself. Charlie Weasley couldn’t have done it."
"Ever seen a game of Quidditch, Potter?"
"Wood’s captain of the Gryffindor team,"
"He’s just the build for a Seeker, too,” said Wood, now walking around Harry and staring at him. “Light — speedy — we’ll have to get him a decent broom, Professor — a Nimbus Two Thousand or a Cleansweep Seven, I’d say."
"I shall speak to Professor Dumbledore and see if we can’t bend the first-year rule. Heaven knows, we need a better team than last year. Flattened in that last match by Slytherin, I couldn’t look Severus Snape in the face for weeks. . . ."
"I want to hear you’re training hard, Potter, or I may change my mind about punishing you."
"Your father would have been proud,” she said. “He was an excellent Quidditch player himself."
"You’re joking."
"Seeker?” he said. “But first years never — you must be the youngest House player in about —"
"— a century,” said Harry, shoveling pie into his mouth. He felt particularly hungry after the excitement of the afternoon. “Wood told me."
"I start training next week,” said Harry. “Only don’t tell anyone, Wood wants to keep it a secret."
"Well done,” said George in a low voice. “Wood told us. We’re on the team too — Beaters."
"I tell you, we’re going to win that Quidditch Cup for sure this year,” said Fred. “We haven’t won since Charlie left, but this year’s team is going to be brilliant. You must be good, Harry, Wood was almost skipping when he told us."
"Anyway, we’ve got to go, Lee Jordan reckons he’s found a new secret passageway out of the school."
"Bet it’s that one behind the statue of Gregory the Smarmy that we found in our first week. See you."
"Having a last meal, Potter? When are you getting the train back to the Muggles?"
"You’re a lot braver now that you’re back on the ground and you’ve got your little friends with you,"
"I’d take you on anytime on my own,” said Malfoy. “Tonight, if you want. Wizard’s duel. Wands only — no contact. What’s the matter? Never heard of a wizard’s duel before, I suppose?"
"Of course he has,” said Ron, wheeling around. “I’m his second, who’s yours?"
"Crabbe,” he said. “Midnight all right? We’ll meet you in the trophy room; that’s always unlocked."
"What is a wizard’s duel?” said Harry. “And what do you mean, you’re my second?"
"Well, a second’s there to take over if you die,” said Ron casually, getting started at last on his cold pie. Catching the look on Harry’s face, he added quickly, “But people only die in proper duels, you know, with real wizards. The most you and Malfoy’ll be able to do is send sparks at each other. Neither of you knows enough magic to do any real damage. I bet he expected you to refuse, anyway."
"And what if I wave my wand and nothing happens?"
"Throw it away and punch him on the nose,"
"Excuse me."
"Can’t a person eat in peace in this place?"
"I couldn’t help overhearing what you and Malfoy were saying —"
"Bet you could,"
"— and you mustn’t go wandering around the school at night, think of the points you’ll lose Gryffindor if you’re caught, and you’re bound to be. It’s really very selfish of you."
"And it’s really none of your business,"
"Good-bye,"
"If he tries to curse you, you’d better dodge it, because I can’t remember how to block them."
"Half-past eleven,” Ron muttered at last, “we’d better go."
"I can’t believe you’re going to do this, Harry."
"You!” said Ron furiously. “Go back to bed!"
"I almost told your brother,” Hermione snapped, “Percy — he’s a prefect, he’d put a stop to this."
"Come on,"
"Don’t you care about Gryffindor, do you only care about yourselves, I don’t want Slytherin to win the House Cup, and you’ll lose all the points I got from Professor McGonagall for knowing about Switching Spells."
"Go away."
"All right, but I warned you, you just remember what I said when you’re on the train home tomorrow, you’re so —"
"Now what am I going to do?"
"That’s your problem,” said Ron. “We’ve got to go, we’re going to be late."
"I’m coming with you,"
"You are not."
"D’you think I’m going to stand out here and wait for Filch to catch me? If he finds all three of us I’ll tell him the truth, that I was trying to stop you, and you can back me up."
"You’ve got some nerve —"
"Shut up, both of you!” said Harry sharply. “I heard something."
"Mrs. Norris?"
"Thank goodness you found me! I’ve been out here for hours, I couldn’t remember the new password to get in to bed."
"Keep your voice down, Neville. The password’s ‘Pig snout’ but it won’t help you now, the Fat Lady’s gone off somewhere."
"How’s your arm?"
"Fine,” said Neville, showing them. “Madam Pomfrey mended it in about a minute."
"Good — well, look, Neville, we’ve got to be somewhere, we’ll see you later —"
"Don’t leave me!” said Neville, scrambling to his feet, “I don’t want to stay here alone, the Bloody Baron’s been past twice already."
"If either of you get us caught, I’ll never rest until I’ve learned that Curse of the Bogies Quirrell told us about, and used it on you."
"He’s late, maybe he’s chickened out,"
"Sniff around, my sweet, they might be lurking in a corner."
"They’re in here somewhere,” they heard him mutter, “probably hiding."
"This way!"
"RUN!"
"I think we’ve lost him,"
"I — told — you,” Hermione gasped, clutching at the stitch in her chest, “I — told — you."
"We’ve got to get back to Gryffindor Tower,” said Ron, “quickly as possible."
"Malfoy tricked you,” Hermione said to Harry. “You realize that, don’t you? He was never going to meet you — Filch knew someone was going to be in the trophy room, Malfoy must have tipped him off."
"Let’s go."
"Shut up, Peeves — please — you’ll get us thrown out."
"Wandering around at midnight, Ickle Firsties? Tut, tut, tut. Naughty, naughty, you’ll get caughty."
"Not if you don’t give us away, Peeves, please."
"Should tell Filch, I should,” said Peeves in a saintly voice, but his eyes glittered wickedly. “It’s for your own good, you know."
"Get out of the way,"
"STUDENTS OUT OF BED!” Peeves bellowed, “STUDENTS OUT OF BED DOWN THE CHARMS CORRIDOR!"
"This is it!” Ron moaned, as they pushed helplessly at the door, “We’re done for! This is the end!"
"Oh, move over,” Hermione snarled. She grabbed Harry’s wand, tapped the lock, and whispered, “Alohomora!"
"Which way did they go, Peeves?” Filch was saying. “Quick, tell me."
"Say ‘please.’"
"Don’t mess with me, Peeves, now where did they go?"
"Shan’t say nothing if you don’t say please,"
"All right — please."
"NOTHING! Ha haaa! Told you I wouldn’t say nothing if you didn’t say please! Ha ha! Haaaaaa!"
"He thinks this door is locked,” Harry whispered. “I think we’ll be okay — get off, Neville!” For Neville had been tugging on the sleeve of Harry’s bathrobe for the last minute. “What?"
"Where on earth have you all been?"
"Never mind that — pig snout, pig snout,"
"What do they think they’re doing, keeping a thing like that locked up in a school?” said Ron finally. “If any dog needs exercise, that one does."
"You don’t use your eyes, any of you, do you?” she snapped. “Didn’t you see what it was standing on?"
"The floor?” Harry suggested. “I wasn’t looking at its feet, I was too busy with its heads."
"No, not the floor. It was standing on a trapdoor. It’s obviously guarding something."
"I hope you’re pleased with yourselves. We could all have been killed — or worse, expelled. Now, if you don’t mind, I’m going to bed."
"No, we don’t mind,” he said. “You’d think we dragged her along, wouldn’t you?"
"It’s either really valuable or really dangerous,"
"Or both,"
"A Nimbus Two Thousand!” Ron moaned enviously. “I’ve never even touched one."
"That’s a broomstick,” he said, throwing it back to Harry with a mixture of jealousy and spite on his face. “You’ll be in for it this time, Potter, first years aren’t allowed them."
"It’s not any old broomstick,” he said, “it’s a Nimbus Two Thousand. What did you say you’ve got at home, Malfoy, a Comet Two Sixty?” Ron grinned at Harry. “Comets look flashy, but they’re not in the same league as the Nimbus."
"What would you know about it, Weasley, you couldn’t afford half the handle,” Malfoy snapped back. “I suppose you and your brothers have to save up twig by twig."
"Not arguing, I hope, boys?"
"Potter’s been sent a broomstick, Professor,"
"Yes, yes, that’s right,” said Professor Flitwick, beaming at Harry. “Professor McGonagall told me all about the special circumstances, Potter. And what model is it?"
"A Nimbus Two Thousand, sir,” said Harry, fighting not to laugh at the look of horror on Malfoy’s face. “And it’s really thanks to Malfoy here that I’ve got it,"
"Well, it’s true,” Harry chortled as they reached the top of the marble staircase, “If he hadn’t stolen Neville’s Remembrall I wouldn’t be on the team. . . ."
"So I suppose you think that’s a reward for breaking rules?"
"I thought you weren’t speaking to us?"
"Yes, don’t stop now,” said Ron, “it’s doing us so much good."
"Wow,"
"Hey, Potter, come down!"
"Very nice,” said Wood, his eyes glinting. “I see what McGonagall meant . . . you really are a natural. I’m just going to teach you the rules this evening, then you’ll be joining team practice three times a week."
"Right,” said Wood. “Now, Quidditch is easy enough to understand, even if it’s not too easy to play. There are seven players on each side. Three of them are called Chasers."
"Three Chasers,"
"This ball’s called the Quaffle,” said Wood. “The Chasers throw the Quaffle to each other and try and get it through one of the hoops to score a goal. Ten points every time the Quaffle goes through one of the hoops. Follow me?"
"The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through the hoops to score,” Harry recited. “So — that’s sort of like basketball on broomsticks with six hoops, isn’t it?"
"What’s basketball?"
"Never mind,"
"Now, there’s another player on each side who’s called the Keeper — I’m Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly around our hoops and stop the other team from scoring."
"Three Chasers, one Keeper,” said Harry, who was determined to remember it all. “And they play with the Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what are they for?"
"I’ll show you now,” said Wood. “Take this."
"I’m going to show you what the Bludgers do,” Wood said. “These two are the Bludgers."
"Stand back,"
"See?” Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger back into the crate and strapping it down safely. “The Bludgers rocket around, trying to knock players off their brooms. That’s why you have two Beaters on each team — the Weasley twins are ours — it’s their job to protect their side from the Bludgers and try and knock them toward the other team. So — think you’ve got all that?"
"Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the Keeper guards the goalposts; the Beaters keep the Bludgers away from their team,"
"Very good,"
"Er — have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?"
"Never at Hogwarts. We’ve had a couple of broken jaws but nothing worse than that. Now, the last member of the team is the Seeker. That’s you. And you don’t have to worry about the Quaffle or the Bludgers —"
"— unless they crack my head open."
"Don’t worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for the Bludgers — I mean, they’re like a pair of human Bludgers themselves."
"This,"
"Well, that’s it — any questions?"
"We won’t practice with the Snitch yet,” said Wood, carefully shutting it back inside the crate, “it’s too dark, we might lose it. Let’s try you out with a few of these."
"That Quidditch Cup’ll have our name on it this year,” said Wood happily as they trudged back up to the castle. “I wouldn’t be surprised if you turn out better than Charlie Weasley, and he could have played for England if he hadn’t gone off chasing dragons."
"Now, don’t forget that nice wrist movement we’ve been practicing!” squeaked Professor Flitwick, perched on top of his pile of books as usual. “Swish and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the magic words properly is very important, too — never forget Wizard Baruffio, who said ‘s’ instead of ‘f’ and found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his chest."
"Wingardium Leviosa!"
"You’re saying it wrong,” Harry heard Hermione snap. “It’s Wing-gar-dium Levi-o-sa, make the ‘gar’ nice and long."
"You do it, then, if you’re so clever,"
"Wingardium Leviosa!"
"Oh, well done!” cried Professor Flitwick, clapping. “Everyone see here, Miss Granger’s done it!"
"It’s no wonder no one can stand her,” he said to Harry as they pushed their way into the crowded corridor, “she’s a nightmare, honestly."
"I think she heard you."
"So?” said Ron, but he looked a bit uncomfortable. “She must’ve noticed she’s got no friends."
"Troll — in the dungeons — thought you ought to know."
"Prefects,” he rumbled, “lead your Houses back to the dormitories immediately!"
"Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear the troll if you follow my orders! Stay close behind me, now. Make way, first years coming through! Excuse me, I’m a prefect!"
"How could a troll get in?"
"Don’t ask me, they’re supposed to be really stupid,” said Ron. “Maybe Peeves let it in for a Halloween joke."
"I’ve just thought — Hermione."
"What about her?"
"She doesn’t know about the troll."
"Oh, all right,” he snapped. “But Percy’d better not see us."
"Percy!"
"What’s he doing?” Harry whispered. “Why isn’t he down in the dungeons with the rest of the teachers?"
"Search me."
"He’s heading for the third floor,"
"Can you smell something?"
"The key’s in the lock,” Harry muttered. “We could lock it in."
"Good idea,"
"Yes!"
"Oh, no,"
"It’s the girls’ bathroom!"
"Hermione!"
"Confuse it!"
"Oy, pea-brain!"
"Come on, run, run!"
"Wingardium Leviosa!"
"Is it — dead?"
"I don’t think so,” said Harry, “I think it’s just been knocked out."
"Urgh – troll boogers."
"What on earth were you thinking of?” said Professor McGonagall, with cold fury in her voice. Harry looked at Ron, who was still standing with his wand in the air. “You’re lucky you weren’t killed. Why aren’t you in your dormitory?"
"Please, Professor McGonagall — they were looking for me."
"Miss Granger!"
"I went looking for the troll because I — I thought I could deal with it on my own — you know, because I’ve read all about them."
"If they hadn’t found me, I’d be dead now. Harry stuck his wand up its nose and Ron knocked it out with its own club. They didn’t have time to come and fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when they arrived."
"Well — in that case . . .” said Professor McGonagall, staring at the three of them, “Miss Granger, you foolish girl, how could you think of tackling a mountain troll on your own?"
"Miss Granger, five points will be taken from Gryffindor for this,” said Professor McGonagall. “I’m very disappointed in you. If you’re not hurt at all, you’d better get off to Gryffindor Tower. Students are finishing the feast in their Houses."
"Well, I still say you were lucky, but not many first years could have taken on a full-grown mountain troll. You each win Gryffindor five points. Professor Dumbledore will be informed of this. You may go."
"We should have gotten more than ten points,"
"Five, you mean, once she’s taken off Hermione’s."
"Good of her to get us out of trouble like that,” Ron admitted. “Mind you, we did save her."
"She might not have needed saving if we hadn’t locked the thing in with her,"
"Pig snout,"
"Thanks,"
"What’s that you’ve got there, Potter?"
"Library books are not to be taken outside the school,” said Snape. “Give it to me. Five points from Gryffindor."
"He’s just made that rule up,” Harry muttered angrily as Snape limped away. “Wonder what’s wrong with his leg?"
"Dunno, but I hope it’s really hurting him,"
"How will you learn?"
"Better you than me,"
"Blasted thing,” Snape was saying. “How are you supposed to keep your eyes on all three heads at once?"
"POTTER!"
"I just wondered if I could have my book back."
"GET OUT! OUT!"
"Did you get it?” Ron asked as Harry joined them. “What’s the matter?"
"You know what this means?” he finished breathlessly. “He tried to get past that three-headed dog at Halloween! That’s where he was going when we saw him — he’s after whatever it’s guarding! And I’d bet my broomstick he let that troll in, to make a diversion!"
"No — he wouldn’t,” she said. “I know he’s not very nice, but he wouldn’t try and steal something Dumbledore was keeping safe."
"Honestly, Hermione, you think all teachers are saints or something,” snapped Ron. “I’m with Harry. I wouldn’t put anything past Snape. But what’s he after? What’s that dog guarding?"
"You’ve got to eat some breakfast."
"I don’t want anything."
"Just a bit of toast,"
"I’m not hungry."
"Harry, you need your strength,” said Seamus Finnigan. “Seekers are always the ones who get clobbered by the other team."
"Thanks, Seamus,"
"Okay, men,"
"And women,"
"And women,” Wood agreed. “This is it."
"The big one,"
"The one we’ve all been waiting for,"
"We know Oliver’s speech by heart,” Fred told Harry, “we were on the team last year."
"Shut up, you two,” said Wood. “This is the best team Gryffindor’s had in years. We’re going to win. I know it."
"Or else."
"Right. It’s time. Good luck, all of you."
"Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you,"
"Mount your brooms, please."
"And the Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor — what an excellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attractive, too —"
"JORDAN!"
"Sorry, Professor."
"And she’s really belting along up there, a neat pass to Alicia Spinnet, a good find of Oliver Wood’s, last year only a reserve — back to Johnson and — no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, Slytherin Captain Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes — Flint flying like an eagle up there — he’s going to sc– no, stopped by an excellent move by Gryffindor Keeper Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle — that’s Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive around Flint, off up the field and — OUCH — that must have hurt, hit in the back of the head by a Bludger — Quaffle taken by the Slytherins — that’s Adrian Pucey speeding off toward the goalposts, but he’s blocked by a second Bludger — sent his way by Fred or George Weasley, can’t tell which — nice play by the Gryffindor Beater, anyway, and Johnson back in possession of the Quaffle, a clear field ahead and off she goes — she’s really flying — dodges a speeding Bludger — the goalposts are ahead — come on, now, Angelina — Keeper Bletchley dives — misses — GRYFFINDOR SCORE!"
"Budge up there, move along."
"Hagrid!"
"Bin watchin’ from me hut,” said Hagrid, patting a large pair of binoculars around his neck, “But it isn’t the same as bein’ in the crowd. No sign of the Snitch yet, eh?"
"Nope,” said Ron. “Harry hasn’t had much to do yet."
"Kept outta trouble, though, that’s somethin’,"
"Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the Snitch,” Wood had said. “We don’t want you attacked before you have to be."
"All right there, Harry?"
"Slytherin in possession,” Lee Jordan was saying, “Chaser Pucey ducks two Bludgers, two Weasleys, and Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the — wait a moment — was that the Snitch?"
"Foul!"
"Send him off, ref! Red card!"
"What are you talking about, Dean?"
"Red card!” said Dean furiously. “In soccer you get shown the red card and you’re out of the game!"
"But this isn’t soccer, Dean,"
"They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked Harry outta the air."
"So — after that obvious and disgusting bit of cheating —"
"Jordan!"
"I mean, after that open and revolting foul —"
"Jordan, I’m warning you —"
"All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker, which could happen to anyone, I’m sure, so a penalty to Gryffindor, taken by Spinnet, who puts it away, no trouble, and we continue play, Gryffindor still in possession."
"Slytherin in possession — Flint with the Quaffle — passes Spinnet — passes Bell — hit hard in the face by a Bludger, hope it broke his nose — only joking, Professor — Slytherins score — oh no . . ."
"Dunno what Harry thinks he’s doing,” Hagrid mumbled. He stared through his binoculars. “If I didn’ know better, I’d say he’d lost control of his broom . . . but he can’t have. . . ."
"Did something happen to it when Flint blocked him?"
"Can’t have,” Hagrid said, his voice shaking. “Can’t nothing interfere with a broomstick except powerful Dark magic — no kid could do that to a Nimbus Two Thousand."
"What are you doing?"
"I knew it,” Hermione gasped, “Snape — look."
"He’s doing something — jinxing the broom,"
"What should we do?"
"Leave it to me."
"Come on, Hermione,"
"Neville, you can look!"
"I’ve got the Snitch!"
"He didn’t catch it, he nearly swallowed it,"
"It was Snape,” Ron was explaining, “Hermione and I saw him. He was cursing your broomstick, muttering, he wouldn’t take his eyes off you."
"Rubbish,” said Hagrid, who hadn’t heard a word of what had gone on next to him in the stands. “Why would Snape do somethin’ like that?"
"I found out something about him,” he told Hagrid. “He tried to get past that three-headed dog on Halloween. It bit him. We think he was trying to steal whatever it’s guarding."
"How do you know about Fluffy?"
"Fluffy?"
"Yeah — he’s mine — bought him off a Greek chappie I met in the pub las’ year — I lent him to Dumbledore to guard the —"
"Yes?"
"Now, don’t ask me anymore,” said Hagrid gruffly. “That’s top secret, that is."
"But Snape’s trying to steal it."
"Rubbish,” said Hagrid again. “Snape’s a Hogwarts teacher, he’d do nothin’ of the sort."
"So why did he just try and kill Harry?"
"I know a jinx when I see one, Hagrid, I’ve read all about them! You’ve got to keep eye contact, and Snape wasn’t blinking at all, I saw him!"
"I’m tellin’ yeh, yer wrong!” said Hagrid hotly. “I don’ know why Harry’s broom acted like that, but Snape wouldn’ try an’ kill a student! Now, listen to me, all three of yeh — yer meddlin’ in things that don’ concern yeh. It’s dangerous. You forget that dog, an’ you forget what it’s guardin’, that’s between Professor Dumbledore an’ Nicolas Flamel —"
"Aha!” said Harry, “so there’s someone called Nicolas Flamel involved, is there?"
"I do feel so sorry,” said Draco Malfoy, one Potions class, “for all those people who have to stay at Hogwarts for Christmas because they’re not wanted at home."
"Hi, Hagrid, want any help?"
"Nah, I’m all right, thanks, Ron."
"Would you mind moving out of the way?” came Malfoy’s cold drawl from behind them. “Are you trying to earn some extra money, Weasley? Hoping to be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I suppose — that hut of Hagrid’s must seem like a palace compared to what your family’s used to."
"WEASLEY!"
"He was provoked, Professor Snape,” said Hagrid, sticking his huge hairy face out from behind the tree. “Malfoy was insultin’ his family."
"Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, Hagrid,” said Snape silkily. “Five points from Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful it isn’t more. Move along, all of you."
"I’ll get him,” said Ron, grinding his teeth at Malfoy’s back, “one of these days, I’ll get him —"
"I hate them both,” said Harry, “Malfoy and Snape."
"Come on, cheer up, it’s nearly Christmas,” said Hagrid. “Tell yeh what, come with me an’ see the Great Hall, looks a treat."
"Ah, Hagrid, the last tree — put it in the far corner, would you?"
"How many days you got left until yer holidays?"
"Just one,” said Hermione. “And that reminds me — Harry, Ron, we’ve got half an hour before lunch, we should be in the library."
"Oh yeah, you’re right,"
"The library?” said Hagrid, following them out of the hall. “Just before the holidays? Bit keen, aren’t yeh?"
"Oh, we’re not working,” Harry told him brightly. “Ever since you mentioned Nicolas Flamel we’ve been trying to find out who he is."
"You what?” Hagrid looked shocked. “Listen here — I’ve told yeh — drop it. It’s nothin’ to you what that dog’s guardin’."
"We just want to know who Nicolas Flamel is, that’s all,"
"Unless you’d like to tell us and save us the trouble?” Harry added. “We must’ve been through hundreds of books already and we can’t find him anywhere — just give us a hint — I know I’ve read his name somewhere."
"I’m sayin’ nothin’,"
"Just have to find out for ourselves, then,"
"What are you looking for, boy?"
"Nothing,"
"You’d better get out, then. Go on — out!"
"You will keep looking while I’m away, won’t you?” said Hermione. “And send me an owl if you find anything."
"And you could ask your parents if they know who Flamel is,” said Ron. “It’d be safe to ask them."
"Very safe, as they’re both dentists,"
"Don’t send me there, can’t you see his knight? Send him, we can afford to lose him."
"Merry Christmas,"
"You, too,” said Harry. “Will you look at this? I’ve got some presents!"
"What did you expect, turnips?"
"That’s friendly,"
"Weird!” he said, “What a shape! This is money?"
"You can keep it,” said Harry, laughing at how pleased Ron was. “Hagrid and my aunt and uncle — so who sent these?"
"I think I know who that one’s from,” said Ron, turning a bit pink and pointing to a very lumpy parcel. “My mum. I told her you didn’t expect any presents and — oh, no,” he groaned, “she’s made you a Weasley sweater."
"Every year she makes us a sweater,” said Ron, unwrapping his own, “and mine’s always maroon."
"That’s really nice of her,"
"I’ve heard of those,” he said in a hushed voice, dropping the box of Every Flavor Beans he’d gotten from Hermione. “If that’s what I think it is — they’re really rare, and really valuable."
"What is it?"
"It’s an Invisibility Cloak,” said Ron, a look of awe on his face. “I’m sure it is — try it on."
"It is! Look down!"
"There’s a note!” said Ron suddenly. “A note fell out of it!"
"I’d give anything for one of these,” he said. “Anything. What’s the matter?"
"Nothing,"
"Merry Christmas!"
"Hey, look — Harry’s got a Weasley sweater, too!"
"Harry’s is better than ours, though,” said Fred, holding up Harry’s sweater. “She obviously makes more of an effort if you’re not family."
"Why aren’t you wearing yours, Ron?” George demanded. “Come on, get it on, they’re lovely and warm."
"I hate maroon,"
"You haven’t got a letter on yours,” George observed. “I suppose she thinks you don’t forget your name. But we’re not stupid — we know we’re called Gred and Forge."
"What’s all this noise?"
"P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we’re all wearing ours, even Harry got one."
"I — don’t — want —"
"And you’re not sitting with the prefects today, either,” said George. “Christmas is a time for family."
"Who’s there?"
"You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if anyone was wandering around at night, and somebody’s been in the library — Restricted Section."
"The Restricted Section? Well, they can’t be far, we’ll catch them."
"Mum?” he whispered. “Dad?"
"I’ll come back,"
"You could have woken me up,"
"You can come tonight, I’m going back, I want to show you the mirror."
"I’d like to see your mum and dad,"
"And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys, you’ll be able to show me your other brothers and everyone."
"You can see them any old time,” said Ron. “Just come round my house this summer. Anyway, maybe it only shows dead people. Shame about not finding Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why aren’t you eating anything?"
"Are you all right?” said Ron. “You look odd."
"I’m freezing,” said Ron. “Let’s forget it and go back."
"No!” Harry hissed. “I know it’s here somewhere."
"It’s here — just here — yes!"
"See?"
"I can’t see anything."
"Look! Look at them all . . . there are loads of them. . . ."
"I can only see you."
"Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am."
"Look at me!"
"Can you see all your family standing around you?"
"No — I’m alone — but I’m different — I look older — and I’m Head Boy!"
"What?"
"I am — I’m wearing the badge like Bill used to — and I’m holding the House Cup and the Quidditch Cup — I’m Quidditch captain, too!"
"Do you think this mirror shows the future?"
"How can it? All my family are dead — let me have another look —"
"You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit more time."
"You’re only holding the Quidditch Cup, what’s interesting about that? I want to see my parents."
"Don’t push me —"
"Quick!"
"This isn’t safe — she might have gone for Filch, I bet she heard us. Come on."
"Want to play chess, Harry?"
"No."
"Why don’t we go down and visit Hagrid?"
"No . . . you go . . ."
"I know what you’re thinking about, Harry, that mirror. Don’t go back tonight."
"Why not?"
"I dunno, I’ve just got a bad feeling about it — and anyway, you’ve had too many close shaves already. Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris are wandering around. So what if they can’t see you? What if they walk into you? What if you knock something over?"
"You sound like Hermione."
"I’m serious, Harry, don’t go."
"So — back again, Harry?"
"I — I didn’t see you, sir."
"Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make you,"
"So,” said Dumbledore, slipping off the desk to sit on the floor with Harry, “you, like hundreds before you, have discovered the delights of the Mirror of Erised."
"I didn’t know it was called that, sir."
"But I expect you’ve realized by now what it does?"
"It — well — it shows me my family —"
"And it showed your friend Ron himself as Head Boy."
"How did you know — ?"
"I don’t need a cloak to become invisible,” said Dumbledore gently. “Now, can you think what the Mirror of Erised shows us all?"
"Let me explain. The happiest man on earth would be able to use the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, that is, he would look into it and see himself exactly as he is. Does that help?"
"It shows us what we want . . . whatever we want . . ."
"Yes and no,"
"The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow, Harry, and I ask you not to go looking for it again. If you ever do run across it, you will now be prepared. It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live, remember that. Now, why don’t you put that admirable Cloak back on and get off to bed?"
"Sir — Professor Dumbledore? Can I ask you something?"
"Obviously, you’ve just done so,” Dumbledore smiled. “You may ask me one more thing, however."
"What do you see when you look in the mirror?"
"I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks."
"One can never have enough socks,” said Dumbledore. “Another Christmas has come and gone and I didn’t get a single pair. People will insist on giving me books."
"You see, Dumbledore was right, that mirror could drive you mad,"
"If Filch had caught you!"
"Will you stop messing around!” he yelled. “That’s exactly the sort of thing that’ll lose us the match! Snape’s refereeing this time, and he’ll be looking for any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!"
"Snape’s refereeing?” he spluttered through a mouthful of mud. “When’s he ever refereed a Quidditch match? He’s not going to be fair if we might overtake Slytherin."
"It’s not my fault,” said Wood. “We’ve just got to make sure we play a clean game, so Snape hasn’t got an excuse to pick on us."
"Don’t talk to me for a moment,” said Ron when Harry sat down next to him, “I need to concen —” He caught sight of Harry’s face. “What’s the matter with you? You look terrible."
"Don’t play,"
"Say you’re ill,"
"Pretend to break your leg,"
"Really break your leg,"
"I can’t,” said Harry. “There isn’t a reserve Seeker. If I back out, Gryffindor can’t play at all."
"What happened?"
"Malfoy,” said Neville shakily. “I met him outside the library. He said he’d been looking for someone to practice that on."
"Go to Professor McGonagall!” Hermione urged Neville. “Report him!"
"I don’t want more trouble,"
"You’ve got to stand up to him, Neville!” said Ron. “He’s used to walking all over people, but that’s no reason to lie down in front of him and make it easier."
"There’s no need to tell me I’m not brave enough to be in Gryffindor, Malfoy’s already done that,"
"You’re worth twelve of Malfoy,” Harry said. “The Sorting Hat chose you for Gryffindor, didn’t it? And where’s Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin."
"Thanks, Harry . . . I think I’ll go to bed. . . . D’you want the card, you collect them, don’t you?"
"Dumbledore again,” he said, “He was the first one I ever —"
"I’ve found him!” he whispered. “I’ve found Flamel! I told you I’d read the name somewhere before, I read it on the train coming here — listen to this: ‘Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of the Dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas Flamel’!"
"Stay there!"
"I never thought to look in here!” she whispered excitedly. “I got this out of the library weeks ago for a bit of light reading."
"Light?"
"I knew it! I knew it!"
"Are we allowed to speak yet?"
"Nicolas Flamel,” she whispered dramatically, “is the only known maker of the Sorcerer’s Stone!"
"The what?"
"Oh, honestly, don’t you two read? Look — read that, there."
"See?” said Hermione, when Harry and Ron had finished. “The dog must be guarding Flamel’s Sorcerer’s Stone! I bet he asked Dumbledore to keep it safe for him, because they’re friends and he knew someone was after it, that’s why he wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts!"
"A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying!” said Harry. “No wonder Snape’s after it! Anyone would want it."
"And no wonder we couldn’t find Flamel in that Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry,” said Ron. “He’s not exactly recent if he’s six hundred and sixty-five, is he?"
"I’m going to play,” he told Ron and Hermione. “If I don’t, all the Slytherins will think I’m just too scared to face Snape. I’ll show them . . . it’ll really wipe the smiles off their faces if we win."
"Just as long as we’re not wiping you off the field,"
"Now, don’t forget, it’s Locomotor Mortis,"
"I know,” Ron snapped. “Don’t nag."
"Don’t want to pressure you, Potter, but if we ever need an early capture of the Snitch it’s now. Finish the game before Snape can favor Hufflepuff too much."
"The whole school’s out there!” said Fred Weasley, peering out of the door. “Even — blimey — Dumbledore’s come to watch!"
"Dumbledore?"
"I’ve never seen Snape look so mean,” he told Hermione. “Look — they’re off. Ouch!"
"Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn’t see you there."
"Wonder how long Potter’s going to stay on his broom this time? Anyone want a bet? What about you, Weasley?"
"You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindor team?” said Malfoy loudly a few minutes later, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another penalty for no reason at all. “It’s people they feel sorry for. See, there’s Potter, who’s got no parents, then there’s the Weasleys, who’ve got no money — you should be on the team, Longbottom, you’ve got no brains."
"I’m worth twelve of you, Malfoy,"
"You tell him, Neville."
"Longbottom, if brains were gold you’d be poorer than Weasley, and that’s saying something."
"I’m warning you, Malfoy — one more word —"
"Ron!” said Hermione suddenly, “Harry — !"
"What? Where?"
"You’re in luck, Weasley, Potter’s obviously spotted some money on the ground!"
"Come on, Harry!"
"Ron! Ron! Where are you? The game’s over! Harry’s won! We’ve won! Gryffindor is in the lead!"
"Well done,” said Dumbledore quietly, so that only Harry could hear. “Nice to see you haven’t been brooding about that mirror . . . been keeping busy . . . excellent . . ."
". . . d-don’t know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of all p-places, Severus . . ."
"Oh, I thought we’d keep this private,” said Snape, his voice icy. “Students aren’t supposed to know about the Sorcerer’s Stone, after all."
"Have you found out how to get past that beast of Hagrid’s yet?"
"B-b-but Severus, I —"
"You don’t want me as your enemy, Quirrell,"
"I-I don’t know what you —"
"You know perfectly well what I mean."
"— your little bit of hocus-pocus. I’m waiting."
"B-but I d-d-don’t —"
"Very well,” Snape cut in. “We’ll have another little chat soon, when you’ve had time to think things over and decided where your loyalties lie."
"Harry, where have you been?"
"We won! You won! We won!” shouted Ron, thumping Harry on the back. “And I gave Malfoy a black eye, and Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle single-handed! He’s still out cold but Madam Pomfrey says he’ll be all right — talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone’s waiting for you in the common room, we’re having a party, Fred and George stole some cakes and stuff from the kitchens."
"Never mind that now,” said Harry breathlessly. “Let’s find an empty room, you wait ’til you hear this. . . ."
"So we were right, it is the Sorcerer’s Stone, and Snape’s trying to force Quirrell to help him get it. He asked if he knew how to get past Fluffy — and he said something about Quirrell’s ‘hocus-pocus’— I reckon there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy, loads of enchantments, probably, and Quirrell would have done some anti-Dark Arts spell that Snape needs to break through —"
"So you mean the Stone’s only safe as long as Quirrell stands up to Snape?"
"It’ll be gone by next Tuesday,"
"Hermione, the exams are ages away."
"Ten weeks,” Hermione snapped. “That’s not ages, that’s like a second to Nicolas Flamel."
"But we’re not six hundred years old,” Ron reminded her. “Anyway, what are you studying for, you already know it all."
"What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize we need to pass these exams to get into the second year? They’re very important, I should have started studying a month ago, I don’t know what’s gotten into me. . . ."
"I’ll never remember this,"
"Dittany” in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi, didn’t look up until he heard Ron say, “Hagrid! What are you doing in the library?"
"Jus’ lookin’,” he said, in a shifty voice that got their interest at once. “An’ what’re you lot up ter?” He looked suddenly suspicious. “Yer not still lookin’ fer Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?"
"Oh, we found out who he is ages ago,” said Ron impressively. “And we know what that dog’s guarding, it’s a Sorcerer’s St —"
"Shhhh!” Hagrid looked around quickly to see if anyone was listening. “Don’ go shoutin’ about it, what’s the matter with yeh?"
"There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a matter of fact,” said Harry, “about what’s guarding the Stone apart from Fluffy —"
"SHHHH!” said Hagrid again. “Listen — come an’ see me later, I’m not promisin’ I’ll tell yeh anythin’, mind, but don’ go rabbitin’ about it in here, students aren’ s’pposed ter know. They’ll think I’ve told yeh —"
"See you later, then,"
"What was he hiding behind his back?"
"Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?"
"I’m going to see what section he was in,"
"Dragons!” he whispered. “Hagrid was looking up stuff about dragons! Look at these: Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland; From Egg to Inferno, A Dragon Keeper’s Guide."
"Hagrid’s always wanted a dragon, he told me so the first time I ever met him,"
"But it’s against our laws,” said Ron. “Dragon breeding was outlawed by the Warlocks’ Convention of 1709, everyone knows that. It’s hard to stop Muggles from noticing us if we’re keeping dragons in the back garden — anyway, you can’t tame dragons, it’s dangerous. You should see the burns Charlie’s got off wild ones in Romania."
"But there aren’t wild dragons in Britain?"
"Of course there are,” said Ron. “Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks. The Ministry of Magic has a job hushing them up, I can tell you. Our kind have to keep putting spells on Muggles who’ve spotted them, to make them forget."
"So what on earth’s Hagrid up to?"
"Who is it?"
"So — yeh wanted to ask me somethin’?"
"Yes,” said Harry. There was no point beating around the bush. “We were wondering if you could tell us what’s guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone apart from Fluffy."
"O’ course I can’t,” he said. “Number one, I don’ know meself. Number two, yeh know too much already, so I wouldn’ tell yeh if I could. That Stone’s here fer a good reason. It was almost stolen outta Gringotts — I s’ppose yeh’ve worked that out an’ all? Beats me how yeh even know abou’ Fluffy."
"Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell us, but you do know, you know everything that goes on round here,” said Hermione in a warm, flattering voice. Hagrid’s beard twitched and they could tell he was smiling. “We only wondered who had done the guarding, really.” Hermione went on. “We wondered who Dumbledore had trusted enough to help him, apart from you."
"Well, I don’ s’pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that . . . let’s see . . . he borrowed Fluffy from me . . . then some o’ the teachers did enchantments . . . Professor Sprout — Professor Flitwick — Professor McGonagall —” he ticked them off on his fingers, “Professor Quirrell — an’ Dumbledore himself did somethin’, o’ course. Hang on, I’ve forgotten someone. Oh yeah, Professor Snape."
"Snape?"
"Yeah — yer not still on abou’ that, are yeh? Look, Snape helped protect the Stone, he’s not about ter steal it."
"You’re the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy, aren’t you, Hagrid?” said Harry anxiously. “And you wouldn’t tell anyone, would you? Not even one of the teachers?"
"Not a soul knows except me an’ Dumbledore,"
"Well, that’s something,” Harry muttered to the others. “Hagrid, can we have a window open? I’m boiling."
"Can’t, Harry, sorry,"
"Hagrid — what’s that?"
"Ah,” said Hagrid, fiddling nervously with his beard, “That’s — er . . ."
"Where did you get it, Hagrid?” said Ron, crouching over the fire to get a closer look at the egg. “It must’ve cost you a fortune."
"Won it,” said Hagrid. “Las’ night. I was down in the village havin’ a few drinks an’ got into a game o’ cards with a stranger. Think he was quite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest."
"But what are you going to do with it when it’s hatched?"
"Well, I’ve bin doin’ some readin’,” said Hagrid, pulling a large book from under his pillow. “Got this outta the library — Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit — it’s a bit outta date, o’ course, but it’s all in here. Keep the egg in the fire, ’cause their mothers breathe on ’em, see, an’ when it hatches, feed it on a bucket o’ brandy mixed with chicken blood every half hour. An’ see here — how ter recognize diff’rent eggs — what I got there’s a Norwegian Ridgeback. They’re rare, them."
"Hagrid, you live in a wooden house,"
"Wonder what it’s like to have a peaceful life,"
"Hermione, how many times in our lives are we going to see a dragon hatching?"
"We’ve got lessons, we’ll get into trouble, and that’s nothing to what Hagrid’s going to be in when someone finds out what he’s doing —"
"Shut up!"
"It’s nearly out."
"Isn’t he beautiful?"
"Bless him, look, he knows his mummy!"
"Hagrid,” said Hermione, “how fast do Norwegian Ridgebacks grow, exactly?"
"What’s the matter?"
"Someone was lookin’ through the gap in the curtains — it’s a kid — he’s runnin’ back up ter the school."
"Just let him go,” Harry urged. “Set him free."
"I can’t,” said Hagrid. “He’s too little. He’d die."
"I’ve decided to call him Norbert,” said Hagrid, looking at the dragon with misty eyes. “He really knows me now, watch. Norbert! Norbert! Where’s Mummy?"
"He’s lost his marbles,"
"Hagrid,” said Harry loudly, “give it two weeks and Norbert’s going to be as long as your house. Malfoy could go to Dumbledore at any moment."
"I — I know I can’t keep him forever, but I can’t jus’ dump him, I can’t."
"Charlie,"
"You’re losing it, too,” said Ron. “I’m Ron, remember?"
"No — Charlie — your brother, Charlie. In Romania. Studying dragons. We could send Norbert to him. Charlie can take care of him and then put him back in the wild!"
"Brilliant!” said Ron. “How about it, Hagrid?"
"It bit me!” he said, showing them his hand, which was wrapped in a bloody handkerchief. “I’m not going to be able to hold a quill for a week. I tell you, that dragon’s the most horrible animal I’ve ever met, but the way Hagrid goes on about it, you’d think it was a fluffy little bunny rabbit. When it bit me he told me off for frightening it. And when I left, he was singing it a lullaby."
"It’s Hedwig!” said Harry, hurrying to let her in. “She’ll have Charlie’s answer!"
"We’ve got the Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. “It shouldn’t be too difficult — I think the cloak’s big enough to cover two of us and Norbert."
"It’s not just my hand,” he whispered, “although that feels like it’s about to fall off. Malfoy told Madam Pomfrey he wanted to borrow one of my books so he could come and have a good laugh at me. He kept threatening to tell her what really bit me — I’ve told her it was a dog, but I don’t think she believes me — I shouldn’t have hit him at the Quidditch match, that’s why he’s doing this."
"It’ll all be over at midnight on Saturday,"
"Midnight on Saturday!” he said in a hoarse voice. “Oh no — oh no — I’ve just remembered — Charlie’s letter was in that book Malfoy took, he’s going to know we’re getting rid of Norbert."
"It’s too late to change the plan now,” Harry told Hermione. “We haven’t got time to send Charlie another owl, and this could be our only chance to get rid of Norbert. We’ll have to risk it. And we have got the Invisibility Cloak, Malfoy doesn’t know about that."
"I won’t let you in,” he puffed. “Norbert’s at a tricky stage — nothin’ I can’t handle."
"Aargh! It’s all right, he only got my boot — jus’ playin’— he’s only a baby, after all."
"He’s got lots o’ rats an’ some brandy fer the journey,” said Hagrid in a muffled voice. “An’ I’ve packed his teddy bear in case he gets lonely."
"Bye-bye, Norbert!” Hagrid sobbed, as Harry and Hermione covered the crate with the Invisibility Cloak and stepped underneath it themselves. “Mummy will never forget you!"
"Nearly there!"
"Detention!” she shouted. “And twenty points from Slytherin! Wandering around in the middle of the night, how dare you —"
"You don’t understand, Professor. Harry Potter’s coming — he’s got a dragon!"
"What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies! Come on — I shall see Professor Snape about you, Malfoy!"
"Malfoy’s got detention! I could sing!"
"Don’t,"
"Well, well, well,” he whispered, “we are in trouble."
"Harry!” Neville burst out, the moment he saw the other two. “I was trying to find you to warn you, I heard Malfoy saying he was going to catch you, he said you had a drag —"
"I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr. Filch says you were up in the Astronomy Tower. It’s one o’clock in the morning. Explain yourselves."
"I think I’ve got a good idea of what’s been going on,” said Professor McGonagall. “It doesn’t take a genius to work it out. You fed Draco Malfoy some cock-and-bull story about a dragon, trying to get him out of bed and into trouble. I’ve already caught him. I suppose you think it’s funny that Longbottom here heard the story and believed it, too?"
"I’m disgusted,” said Professor McGonagall. “Four students out of bed in one night! I’ve never heard of such a thing before! You, Miss Granger, I thought you had more sense. As for you, Mr. Potter, I thought Gryffindor meant more to you than this. All three of you will receive detentions — yes, you too, Mr. Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk around school at night, especially these days, it’s very dangerous — and fifty points will be taken from Gryffindor."
"Fifty?"
"Fifty points each,"
"Professor — please —"
"You can’t —"
"Don’t tell me what I can and can’t do, Potter. Now get back to bed, all of you. I’ve never been more ashamed of Gryffindor students."
"Thanks Potter, we owe you one!"
"They’ll all forget this in a few weeks. Fred and George have lost loads of points in all the time they’ve been here, and people still like them."
"They’ve never lost a hundred and fifty points in one go, though, have they?"
"Well — no,"
"Resign?” Wood thundered. “What good’ll that do? How are we going to get any points back if we can’t win at Quidditch?"
"the Seeker."
"No — no — not again, please —"
"All right — all right —"
"Snape’s done it, then!” said Ron. “If Quirrell’s told him how to break his Anti-Dark Force spell —"
"There’s still Fluffy, though,"
"Maybe Snape’s found out how to get past him without asking Hagrid,” said Ron, looking up at the thousands of books surrounding them. “I bet there’s a book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a giant three-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?"
"Go to Dumbledore. That’s what we should have done ages ago. If we try anything ourselves we’ll be thrown out for sure."
"But we’ve got no proof!” said Harry. “Quirrell’s too scared to back us up. Snape’s only got to say he doesn’t know how the troll got in at Halloween and that he was nowhere near the third floor — who do you think they’ll believe, him or us? It’s not exactly a secret we hate him, Dumbledore’ll think we made it up to get him sacked. Filch wouldn’t help us if his life depended on it, he’s too friendly with Snape, and the more students get thrown out, the better, he’ll think. And don’t forget, we’re not supposed to know about the Stone or Fluffy. That’ll take a lot of explaining."
"If we just do a bit of poking around —"
"No,” said Harry flatly, “we’ve done enough poking around."
"Follow me,"
"I bet you’ll think twice about breaking a school rule again, won’t you, eh?” he said, leering at them. “Oh yes . . . hard work and pain are the best teachers if you ask me. . . . It’s just a pity they let the old punishments die out . . . hang you by your wrists from the ceiling for a few days, I’ve got the chains still in my office, keep ’em well oiled in case they’re ever needed. . . . Right, off we go, and don’t think of running off, now, it’ll be worse for you if you do."
"Is that you, Filch? Hurry up, I want ter get started."
"I suppose you think you’ll be enjoying yourself with that oaf? Well, think again, boy — it’s into the forest you’re going and I’m much mistaken if you’ll all come out in one piece."
"The forest?” he repeated, and he didn’t sound quite as cool as usual. “We can’t go in there at night — there’s all sorts of things in there — werewolves, I heard."
"That’s your problem, isn’t it?” said Filch, his voice cracking with glee. “Should’ve thought of them werewolves before you got in trouble, shouldn’t you?"
"Abou’ time,” he said. “I bin waitin’ fer half an hour already. All right, Harry, Hermione?"
"I shouldn’t be too friendly to them, Hagrid,” said Filch coldly, “they’re here to be punished, after all."
"That’s why yer late, is it?” said Hagrid, frowning at Filch. “Bin lecturin’ them, eh? ’Snot your place ter do that. Yeh’ve done yer bit, I’ll take over from here."
"I’ll be back at dawn,” said Filch, “for what’s left of them,"
"I’m not going in that forest,"
"Yeh are if yeh want ter stay at Hogwarts,” said Hagrid fiercely. “Yeh’ve done wrong an’ now yeh’ve got ter pay fer it."
"But this is servant stuff, it’s not for students to do. I thought we’d be copying lines or something, if my father knew I was doing this, he’d —"
"— tell yer that’s how it is at Hogwarts,” Hagrid growled. “Copyin’ lines! What good’s that ter anyone? Yeh’ll do summat useful or yeh’ll get out. If yeh think yer father’d rather you were expelled, then get back off ter the castle an’ pack. Go on!"
"Right then,” said Hagrid, “now, listen carefully, ’cause it’s dangerous what we’re gonna do tonight, an’ I don’ want no one takin’ risks. Follow me over here a moment."
"Look there,” said Hagrid, “see that stuff shinin’ on the ground? Silvery stuff? That’s unicorn blood. There’s a unicorn in there bin hurt badly by summat. This is the second time in a week. I found one dead last Wednesday. We’re gonna try an’ find the poor thing. We might have ter put it out of its misery."
"And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us first?"
"There’s nothin’ that lives in the forest that’ll hurt yeh if yer with me or Fang,” said Hagrid. “An’ keep ter the path. Right, now, we’re gonna split inter two parties an’ follow the trail in diff’rent directions. There’s blood all over the place, it must’ve bin staggerin’ around since last night at least."
"I want Fang,"
"All right, but I warn yeh, he’s a coward,” said Hagrid. “So me, Harry, an’ Hermione’ll go one way an’ Draco, Neville, an’ Fang’ll go the other. Now, if any of us finds the unicorn, we’ll send up green sparks, right? Get yer wands out an’ practice now — that’s it — an’ if anyone gets in trouble, send up red sparks, an’ we’ll all come an’ find yeh — so, be careful — let’s go."
"Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?"
"Not fast enough,” said Hagrid. “It’s not easy ter catch a unicorn, they’re powerful magic creatures. I never knew one ter be hurt before."
"You all right, Hermione?” Hagrid whispered. “Don’ worry, it can’t’ve gone far if it’s this badly hurt, an’ then we’ll be able ter — GET BEHIND THAT TREE!"
"I knew it,” he murmured. “There’s summat in here that shouldn’ be."
"A werewolf?"
"That wasn’ no werewolf an’ it wasn’ no unicorn, neither,” said Hagrid grimly. “Right, follow me, but careful, now."
"Who’s there?” Hagrid called. “Show yerself — I’m armed!"
"Oh, it’s you, Ronan,” said Hagrid in relief. “How are yeh?"
"Good evening to you, Hagrid,” said Ronan. He had a deep, sorrowful voice. “Were you going to shoot me?"
"Can’t be too careful, Ronan,” said Hagrid, patting his crossbow. “There’s summat bad loose in this forest. This is Harry Potter an’ Hermione Granger, by the way. Students up at the school. An’ this is Ronan, you two. He’s a centaur."
"We’d noticed,"
"Good evening,” said Ronan. “Students, are you? And do you learn much, up at the school?"
"Erm —"
"A bit,"
"A bit. Well, that’s something.” Ronan sighed. He flung back his head and stared at the sky. “Mars is bright tonight."
"Yeah,” said Hagrid, glancing up, too. “Listen, I’m glad we’ve run inter yeh, Ronan, ’cause there’s a unicorn bin hurt — you seen anythin’?"
"Always the innocent are the first victims,” he said. “So it has been for ages past, so it is now."
"Yeah,” said Hagrid, “but have yeh seen anythin’, Ronan? Anythin’ unusual?"
"Mars is bright tonight,” Ronan repeated, while Hagrid watched him impatiently. “Unusually bright."
"Yeah, but I was meanin’ anythin’ unusual a bit nearer home,” said Hagrid. “So yeh haven’t noticed anythin’ strange?"
"The forest hides many secrets."
"Hullo, Bane,” said Hagrid. “All right?"
"Good evening, Hagrid, I hope you are well?"
"Well enough. Look, I’ve jus’ bin askin’ Ronan, you seen anythin’ odd in here lately? There’s a unicorn bin injured — would yeh know anythin’ about it?"
"Mars is bright tonight,"
"We’ve heard,” said Hagrid grumpily. “Well, if either of you do see anythin’, let me know, won’t yeh? We’ll be off, then."
"Never,” said Hagrid irritably, “try an’ get a straight answer out of a centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not interested in anythin’ closer’n the moon."
"Are there many of them in here?"
"Oh, a fair few. . . . Keep themselves to themselves mostly, but they’re good enough about turnin’ up if ever I want a word. They’re deep, mind, centaurs . . . they know things . . . jus’ don’ let on much."
"D’you think that was a centaur we heard earlier?"
"Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask me, that was what’s bin killin’ the unicorns — never heard anythin’ like it before."
"Hagrid! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!"
"You two wait here!” Hagrid shouted. “Stay on the path, I’ll come back for yeh!"
"You don’t think they’ve been hurt, do you?"
"I don’t care if Malfoy has, but if something’s got Neville . . . it’s our fault he’s here in the first place."
"We’ll be lucky ter catch anythin’ now, with the racket you two were makin’. Right, we’re changin’ groups — Neville, you stay with me an’ Hermione, Harry, you go with Fang an’ this idiot. I’m sorry,” Hagrid added in a whisper to Harry, “but he’ll have a harder time frightenin’ you, an’ we’ve gotta get this done."
"Look —"
"AAAAAAAAAAARGH!"
"Are you all right?"
"Yes — thank you — what was that?"
"You are the Potter boy,"
"My name is Firenze,"
"Firenze!” Bane thundered. “What are you doing? You have a human on your back! Have you no shame? Are you a common mule?"
"Do you realize who this is?” said Firenze. “This is the Potter boy. The quicker he leaves this forest, the better."
"What have you been telling him?” growled Bane. “Remember, Firenze, we are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens. Have we not read what is to come in the movements of the planets?"
"I’m sure Firenze thought he was acting for the best,"
"For the best! What is that to do with us? Centaurs are concerned with what has been foretold! It is not our business to run around like donkeys after stray humans in our forest!"
"Do you not see that unicorn?” Firenze bellowed at Bane. “Do you not understand why it was killed? Or have the planets not let you in on that secret? I set myself against what is lurking in this forest, Bane, yes, with humans alongside me if I must."
"Why’s Bane so angry?” he asked. “What was that thing you saved me from, anyway?"
"Harry Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is used for?"
"No,” said Harry, startled by the odd question. “We’ve only used the horn and tail hair in Potions."
"That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a unicorn,” said Firenze. “Only one who has nothing to lose, and everything to gain, would commit such a crime. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive, even if you are an inch from death, but at a terrible price. You have slain something pure and defenseless to save yourself, and you will have but a half-life, a cursed life, from the moment the blood touches your lips."
"But who’d be that desperate?” he wondered aloud. “If you’re going to be cursed forever, death’s better, isn’t it?"
"It is,” Firenze agreed, “unless all you need is to stay alive long enough to drink something else — something that will bring you back to full strength and power — something that will mean you can never die. Mr. Potter, do you know what is hidden in the school at this very moment?"
"The Sorcerer’s Stone! Of course — the Elixir of Life! But I don’t understand who —"
"Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to return to power, who has clung to life, awaiting their chance?"
"Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough human left in him to die."
"Do you mean,” Harry croaked, “that was Vol —"
"Harry! Harry, are you all right?"
"I’m fine,” said Harry, hardly knowing what he was saying. “The unicorn’s dead, Hagrid, it’s in that clearing back there."
"This is where I leave you,” Firenze murmured as Hagrid hurried off to examine the unicorn. “You are safe now."
"Good luck, Harry Potter,” said Firenze. “The planets have been read wrongly before now, even by centaurs. I hope this is one of those times."
"Snape wants the Stone for Voldemort . . . and Voldemort’s waiting in the forest . . . and all this time we thought Snape just wanted to get rich. . . ."
"Stop saying the name!"
"Firenze saved me, but he shouldn’t have done so. . . . Bane was furious . . . he was talking about interfering with what the planets say is going to happen. . . . They must show that Voldemort’s coming back. . . . Bane thinks Firenze should have let Voldemort kill me. . . . I suppose that’s written in the stars as well."
"Will you stop saying the name!"
"So all I’ve got to wait for now is Snape to steal the Stone,” Harry went on feverishly, “then Voldemort will be able to come and finish me off. . . . Well, I suppose Bane’ll be happy."
"Harry, everyone says Dumbledore’s the only one You-Know-Who was ever afraid of. With Dumbledore around, You-Know-Who won’t touch you. Anyway, who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like fortune-telling to me, and Professor McGonagall says that’s a very imprecise branch of magic."
"That was far easier than I thought it would be,” said Hermione as they joined the crowds flocking out onto the sunny grounds. “I needn’t have learned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of Elfric the Eager."
"No more studying,” Ron sighed happily, stretching out on the grass. “You could look more cheerful, Harry, we’ve got a week before we find out how badly we’ve done, there’s no need to worry yet."
"I wish I knew what this means!” he burst out angrily. “My scar keeps hurting — it’s happened before, but never as often as this."
"Go to Madam Pomfrey,"
"I’m not ill,” said Harry. “I think it’s a warning . . . it means danger’s coming. . . ."
"Harry, relax, Hermione’s right, the Stone’s safe as long as Dumbledore’s around. Anyway, we’ve never had any proof Snape found out how to get past Fluffy. He nearly had his leg ripped off once, he’s not going to try it again in a hurry. And Neville will play Quidditch for England before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down."
"That’s just the exams. I woke up last night and was halfway through my Transfiguration notes before I remembered we’d done that one."
"Where’re you going?"
"I’ve just thought of something,” said Harry. He had turned white. “We’ve got to go and see Hagrid, now."
"Why?"
"Don’t you think it’s a bit odd,” said Harry, scrambling up the grassy slope, “that what Hagrid wants more than anything else is a dragon, and a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in his pocket? How many people wander around with dragon eggs if it’s against wizard law? Lucky they found Hagrid, don’t you think? Why didn’t I see it before?"
"What are you talking about?"
"Hullo,” he said, smiling. “Finished yer exams? Got time fer a drink?"
"Yes, please,"
"No, we’re in a hurry. Hagrid, I’ve got to ask you something. You know that night you won Norbert? What did the stranger you were playing cards with look like?"
"Dunno,” said Hagrid casually, “he wouldn’ take his cloak off."
"It’s not that unusual, yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in the Hog’s Head — that’s one o’ the pubs down in the village. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn’ he? I never saw his face, he kept his hood up."
"What did you talk to him about, Hagrid? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?"
"Mighta come up,” said Hagrid, frowning as he tried to remember. “Yeah . . . he asked what I did, an’ I told him I was gamekeeper here. . . . He asked a bit about the sorta creatures I look after . . . so I told him . . . an’ I said what I’d always really wanted was a dragon . . . an’ then . . . I can’ remember too well, ’cause he kept buyin’ me drinks. . . . Let’s see . . . yeah, then he said he had the dragon egg an’ we could play cards fer it if I wanted . . . but he had ter be sure I could handle it, he didn’ want it ter go ter any old home. . . . So I told him, after Fluffy, a dragon would be easy. . . ."
"And did he — did he seem interested in Fluffy?"
"Well — yeah — how many three-headed dogs d’yeh meet, even around Hogwarts? So I told him, Fluffy’s a piece o’ cake if yeh know how to calm him down, jus’ play him a bit o’ music an’ he’ll go straight off ter sleep —"
"I shouldn’ta told yeh that!” he blurted out. “Forget I said it! Hey — where’re yeh goin’?"
"We’ve got to go to Dumbledore,” said Harry. “Hagrid told that stranger how to get past Fluffy, and it was either Snape or Voldemort under that cloak — it must’ve been easy, once he’d got Hagrid drunk. I just hope Dumbledore believes us. Firenze might back us up if Bane doesn’t stop him. Where’s Dumbledore’s office?"
"We’ll just have to —"
"What are you three doing inside?"
"We want to see Professor Dumbledore,"
"See Professor Dumbledore?” Professor McGonagall repeated, as though this was a very fishy thing to want to do. “Why?"
"It’s sort of secret,"
"Professor Dumbledore left ten minutes ago,” she said coldly. “He received an urgent owl from the Ministry of Magic and flew off for London at once."
"He’s gone?” said Harry frantically. “Now?"
"Professor Dumbledore is a very great wizard, Potter, he has many demands on his time —"
"But this is important."
"Something you have to say is more important than the Ministry of Magic, Potter?"
"Look,” said Harry, throwing caution to the winds, “Professor — it’s about the Sorcerer’s Stone —"
"How do you know — ?"
"Professor, I think — I know — that Sn — that someone’s going to try and steal the Stone. I’ve got to talk to Professor Dumbledore."
"Professor Dumbledore will be back tomorrow,” she said finally. “I don’t know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured, no one can possibly steal it, it’s too well protected."
"But Professor —"
"Potter, I know what I’m talking about,” she said shortly. She bent down and gathered up the fallen books. “I suggest you all go back outside and enjoy the sunshine."
"It’s tonight,” said Harry, once he was sure Professor McGonagall was out of earshot. “Snape’s going through the trapdoor tonight. He’s found out everything he needs, and now he’s got Dumbledore out of the way. He sent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magic will get a real shock when Dumbledore turns up."
"But what can we —"
"Good afternoon,"
"You shouldn’t be inside on a day like this,"
"We were —"
"You want to be more careful,” said Snape. “Hanging around like this, people will think you’re up to something. And Gryffindor really can’t afford to lose any more points, can it?"
"Be warned, Potter — any more nighttime wanderings and I will personally make sure you are expelled. Good day to you."
"Right, here’s what we’ve got to do,” he whispered urgently. “One of us has got to keep an eye on Snape — wait outside the staffroom and follow him if he leaves it. Hermione, you’d better do that."
"Why me?"
"It’s obvious,” said Ron. “You can pretend to be waiting for Professor Flitwick, you know.” He put on a high voice, “‘Oh Professor Flitwick, I’m so worried, I think I got question fourteen b wrong. . . .’"
"Oh, shut up,"
"And we’d better stay outside the third-floor corridor,” Harry told Ron. “Come on."
"I suppose you think you’re harder to get past than a pack of enchantments!” she stormed. “Enough of this nonsense! If I hear you’ve come anywhere near here again, I’ll take another fifty points from Gryffindor! Yes, Weasley, from my own House!"
"At least Hermione’s on Snape’s tail,"
"I’m sorry, Harry!” she wailed. “Snape came out and asked me what I was doing, so I said I was waiting for Flitwick, and Snape went to get him, and I’ve only just got away, I don’t know where Snape went."
"Well, that’s it then, isn’t it?"
"I’m going out of here tonight and I’m going to try and get to the Stone first."
"You’re mad!"
"You can’t!” said Hermione. “After what McGonagall and Snape have said? You’ll be expelled!"
"SO WHAT?” Harry shouted. “Don’t you understand? If Snape gets hold of the Stone, Voldemort’s coming back! Haven’t you heard what it was like when he was trying to take over? There won’t be any Hogwarts to get expelled from! He’ll flatten it, or turn it into a school for the Dark Arts! Losing points doesn’t matter anymore, can’t you see? D’you think he’ll leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the House Cup? If I get caught before I can get to the Stone, well, I’ll have to go back to the Dursleys and wait for Voldemort to find me there, it’s only dying a bit later than I would have, because I’m never going over to the Dark Side! I’m going through that trapdoor tonight and nothing you two say is going to stop me! Voldemort killed my parents, remember?"
"You’re right, Harry,"
"I’ll use the Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. “It’s just lucky I got it back."
"But will it cover all three of us?"
"All — all three of us?"
"Oh, come off it, you don’t think we’d let you go alone?"
"Of course not,” said Hermione briskly. “How do you think you’d get to the Stone without us? I’d better go and look through my books, there might be something useful. . . ."
"But if we get caught, you two will be expelled, too."
"Not if I can help it,” said Hermione grimly. “Flitwick told me in secret that I got a hundred and twelve percent on his exam. They’re not throwing me out after that."
"Better get the Cloak,"
"We’d better put the Cloak on here, and make sure it covers all three of us — if Filch spots one of our feet wandering along on its own —"
"What are you doing?"
"Nothing, Neville, nothing,"
"You’re going out again,"
"No, no, no,” said Hermione. “No, we’re not. Why don’t you go to bed, Neville?"
"You can’t go out,” said Neville, “you’ll be caught again. Gryffindor will be in even more trouble."
"You don’t understand,” said Harry, “this is important."
"I won’t let you do it,” he said, hurrying to stand in front of the portrait hole. “I’ll — I’ll fight you!"
"Neville,” Ron exploded, “get away from that hole and don’t be an idiot —"
"Don’t you call me an idiot!” said Neville. “I don’t think you should be breaking any more rules! And you were the one who told me to stand up to people!"
"Yes, but not to us,” said Ron in exasperation. “Neville, you don’t know what you’re doing."
"Go on then, try and hit me!” said Neville, raising his fists. “I’m ready!"
"Do something,"
"Neville,” she said, “I’m really, really sorry about this."
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"What’ve you done to him?"
"It’s the full Body-Bind,” said Hermione miserably. “Oh, Neville, I’m so sorry."
"We had to, Neville, no time to explain,"
"You’ll understand later, Neville,"
"Oh, let’s kick her, just this once,"
"Who’s there?” he said suddenly as they climbed toward him. He narrowed his wicked black eyes. “Know you’re there, even if I can’t see you. Are you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?"
"Should call Filch, I should, if something’s a-creeping around unseen."
"Peeves,” he said, in a hoarse whisper, “the Bloody Baron has his own reasons for being invisible."
"So sorry, your bloodiness, Mr. Baron, sir,” he said greasily. “My mistake, my mistake — I didn’t see you — of course I didn’t, you’re invisible — forgive old Peevsie his little joke, sir."
"I have business here, Peeves,” croaked Harry. “Stay away from this place tonight."
"I will, sir, I most certainly will,” said Peeves, rising up in the air again. “Hope your business goes well, Baron, I’ll not bother you."
"Brilliant, Harry!"
"Well, there you are,” Harry said quietly, “Snape’s already got past Fluffy."
"If you want to go back, I won’t blame you,” he said. “You can take the Cloak, I won’t need it now."
"Don’t be stupid,"
"We’re coming,"
"What’s that at its feet?"
"Looks like a harp,” said Ron. “Snape must have left it there."
"It must wake up the moment you stop playing,” said Harry. “Well, here goes . . ."
"Keep playing,"
"I think we’ll be able to pull the door open,” said Ron, peering over the dog’s back. “Want to go first, Hermione?"
"No, I don’t!"
"All right."
"What can you see?"
"Nothing — just black — there’s no way of climbing down, we’ll just have to drop."
"You want to go first? Are you sure?” said Ron. “I don’t know how deep this thing goes. Give the flute to Hermione so she can keep him asleep."
"If anything happens to me, don’t follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Dumbledore, right?"
"Right,"
"See you in a minute, I hope. . . ."
"It’s okay!” he called up to the light the size of a postage stamp, which was the open trapdoor, “it’s a soft landing, you can jump!"
"What’s this stuff?"
"Dunno, some sort of plant thing. I suppose it’s here to break the fall. Come on, Hermione!"
"We must be miles under the school,"
"Lucky this plant thing’s here, really,"
"Lucky!” shrieked Hermione. “Look at you both!"
"Stop moving!” Hermione ordered them. “I know what this is — it’s Devil’s Snare!"
"Oh, I’m so glad we know what it’s called, that’s a great help,"
"Shut up, I’m trying to remember how to kill it!"
"Well, hurry up, I can’t breathe!"
"Devil’s Snare, Devil’s Snare . . . what did Professor Sprout say? — it likes the dark and the damp —"
"So light a fire!"
"Yes — of course — but there’s no wood!"
"HAVE YOU GONE MAD?” Ron bellowed. “ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT?"
"Oh, right!"
"Lucky you pay attention in Herbology, Hermione,"
"Yeah,” said Ron, “and lucky Harry doesn’t lose his head in a crisis —‘there’s no wood,’ honestly."
"This way,"
"Can you hear something?"
"Do you think it’s a ghost?"
"I don’t know . . . sounds like wings to me."
"There’s light ahead — I can see something moving."
"Do you think they’ll attack us if we cross the room?"
"Probably,” said Harry. “They don’t look very vicious, but I suppose if they all swooped down at once . . . well, there’s no other choice . . . I’ll run."
"Now what?"
"These birds . . . they can’t be here just for decoration,"
"They’re not birds!” Harry said suddenly. “They’re keys! Winged keys — look carefully. So that must mean . . .” he looked around the chamber while the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. “. . . yes — look! Broomsticks! We’ve got to catch the key to the door!"
"But there are hundreds of them!"
"We’re looking for a big, old-fashioned one — probably silver, like the handle."
"That one!” he called to the others. “That big one — there — no, there — with bright blue wings — the feathers are all crumpled on one side."
"We’ve got to close in on it!” Harry called, not taking his eyes off the key with the damaged wing. “Ron, you come at it from above — Hermione, stay below and stop it from going down — and I’ll try and catch it. Right, NOW!"
"Ready?"
"Now what do we do?"
"It’s obvious, isn’t it?” said Ron. “We’ve got to play our way across the room."
"How?"
"I think,” said Ron, “we’re going to have to be chessmen."
"Do we — er — have to join you to get across?"
"This needs thinking about. . . .” he said. “I suppose we’ve got to take the place of three of the black pieces. . . ."
"Now, don’t be offended or anything, but neither of you are that good at chess —"
"We’re not offended,” said Harry quickly. “Just tell us what to do."
"Well, Harry, you take the place of that bishop, and Hermione, you go there instead of that castle."
"What about you?"
"I’m going to be a knight,"
"White always plays first in chess,” said Ron, peering across the board. “Yes . . . look . . ."
"Harry — move diagonally four squares to the right."
"Had to let that happen,” said Ron, looking shaken. “Leaves you free to take that bishop, Hermione, go on."
"We’re nearly there,” he muttered suddenly. “Let me think — let me think . . ."
"Yes . . .” said Ron softly, “it’s the only way . . . I’ve got to be taken."
"NO!"
"That’s chess!” snapped Ron. “You’ve got to make some sacrifices! I’ll make my move and she’ll take me — that leaves you free to checkmate the king, Harry!"
"But —"
"Do you want to stop Snape or not?"
"Ron —"
"Look, if you don’t hurry up, he’ll already have the Stone!"
"Ready?” Ron called, his face pale but determined. “Here I go — now, don’t hang around once you’ve won."
"What if he’s — ?"
"He’ll be all right,” said Harry, trying to convince himself. “What do you reckon’s next?"
"We’ve had Sprout’s, that was the Devil’s Snare; Flitwick must’ve put charms on the keys; McGonagall transfigured the chessmen to make them alive; that leaves Quirrell’s spell, and Snape’s . . ."
"All right?"
"Go on."
"I’m glad we didn’t have to fight that one,” Harry whispered as they stepped carefully over one of its massive legs. “Come on, I can’t breathe."
"Snape’s,” said Harry. “What do we have to do?"
"Look!"
"Brilliant,” said Hermione. “This isn’t magic — it’s logic — a puzzle. A lot of the greatest wizards haven’t got an ounce of logic, they’d be stuck in here forever."
"But so will we, won’t we?"
"Of course not,” said Hermione. “Everything we need is here on this paper. Seven bottles: three are poison; two are wine; one will get us safely through the black fire, and one will get us back through the purple."
"But how do we know which to drink?"
"Give me a minute."
"Got it,” she said. “The smallest bottle will get us through the black fire — toward the Stone."
"There’s only enough there for one of us,” he said. “That’s hardly one swallow."
"Which one will get you back through the purple flames?"
"You drink that,” said Harry. “No, listen, get back and get Ron. Grab brooms from the flying-key room, they’ll get you out of the trapdoor and past Fluffy — go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Dumbledore, we need him. I might be able to hold Snape off for a while, but I’m no match for him, really."
"But Harry — what if You-Know-Who’s with him?"
"Well — I was lucky once, wasn’t I?” said Harry, pointing at his scar. “I might get lucky again."
"Hermione!"
"Harry — you’re a great wizard, you know."
"I’m not as good as you,"
"Me!” said Hermione. “Books! And cleverness! There are more important things — friendship and bravery and — oh Harry — be careful!"
"You drink first,” said Harry. “You are sure which is which, aren’t you?"
"Positive,"
"It’s not poison?"
"No — but it’s like ice."
"Quick, go, before it wears off."
"Good luck — take care —"
"GO!"
"Here I come,"
"You!"
"Me,” he said calmly. “I wondered whether I’d be meeting you here, Potter."
"But I thought — Snape —"
"Severus?” Quirrell laughed, and it wasn’t his usual quivering treble, either, but cold and sharp. “Yes, Severus does seem the type, doesn’t he? So useful to have him swooping around like an overgrown bat. Next to him, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-stuttering P-Professor Quirrell?"
"But Snape tried to kill me!"
"No, no, no. I tried to kill you. Your friend Miss Granger accidentally knocked me over as she rushed to set fire to Snape at that Quidditch match. She broke my eye contact with you. Another few seconds and I’d have got you off that broom. I’d have managed it before then if Snape hadn’t been muttering a countercurse, trying to save you."
"Snape was trying to save me?"
"Of course,” said Quirrell coolly. “Why do you think he wanted to referee your next match? He was trying to make sure I didn’t do it again. Funny, really . . . he needn’t have bothered. I couldn’t do anything with Dumbledore watching. All the other teachers thought Snape was trying to stop Gryffindor from winning, he did make himself unpopular . . . and what a waste of time, when after all that, I’m going to kill you tonight."
"You’re too nosy to live, Potter. Scurrying around the school on Halloween like that, for all I knew you’d seen me coming to look at what was guarding the Stone."
"You let the troll in?"
"Now, wait quietly, Potter. I need to examine this interesting mirror."
"This mirror is the key to finding the Stone,” Quirrell murmured, tapping his way around the frame. “Trust Dumbledore to come up with something like this . . . but he’s in London . . . I’ll be far away by the time he gets back. . . ."
"I saw you and Snape in the forest —"
"Yes,” said Quirrell idly, walking around the mirror to look at the back. “He was on to me by that time, trying to find out how far I’d got. He suspected me all along. Tried to frighten me — as though he could, when I had Lord Voldemort on my side. . . ."
"I see the Stone . . . I’m presenting it to my master . . . but where is it?"
"But Snape always seemed to hate me so much."
"Oh, he does,” said Quirrell casually, “heavens, yes. He was at Hogwarts with your father, didn’t you know? They loathed each other. But he never wanted you dead."
"But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing — I thought Snape was threatening you. . . ."
"Sometimes,” he said, “I find it hard to follow my master’s instructions — he is a great wizard and I am weak —"
"You mean he was there in the classroom with you?"
"He is with me wherever I go,” said Quirrell quietly. “I met him when I traveled around the world. A foolish young man I was then, full of ridiculous ideas about good and evil. Lord Voldemort showed me how wrong I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power, and those too weak to seek it. . . . Since then, I have served him faithfully, although I have let him down many times. He has had to be very hard on me.” Quirrell shivered suddenly. “He does not forgive mistakes easily. When I failed to steal the Stone from Gringotts, he was most displeased. He punished me . . . decided he would have to keep a closer watch on me. . . ."
"I don’t understand . . . is the Stone inside the mirror? Should I break it?"
"What does this mirror do? How does it work? Help me, Master!"
"Use the boy . . . Use the boy . . ."
"Yes — Potter — come here."
"Come here,” Quirrell repeated. “Look in the mirror and tell me what you see."
"Well?” said Quirrell impatiently. “What do you see?"
"I see myself shaking hands with Dumbledore,” he invented. “I — I’ve won the House Cup for Gryffindor."
"Get out of the way,"
"He lies . . . He lies . . ."
"Potter, come back here!” Quirrell shouted. “Tell me the truth! What did you just see?"
"Let me speak to him . . . face-to-face. . . ."
"Master, you are not strong enough!"
"I have strength enough . . . for this. . . ."
"Harry Potter . . ."
"See what I have become?” the face said. “Mere shadow and vapor . . . I have form only when I can share another’s body . . . but there have always been those willing to let me into their hearts and minds. . . . Unicorn blood has strengthened me, these past weeks . . . you saw faithful Quirrell drinking it for me in the forest . . . and once I have the Elixir of Life, I will be able to create a body of my own. . . . Now . . . why don’t you give me that Stone in your pocket?"
"Don’t be a fool,” snarled the face. “Better save your own life and join me . . . or you’ll meet the same end as your parents. . . . They died begging me for mercy. . . ."
"LIAR!"
"How touching . . .” it hissed. “I always value bravery. . . . Yes, boy, your parents were brave. . . . I killed your father first, and he put up a courageous fight . . . but your mother needn’t have died . . . she was trying to protect you. . . . Now give me the Stone, unless you want her to have died in vain."
"NEVER!"
"SEIZE HIM!"
"Seize him! SEIZE HIM!"
"Master, I cannot hold him — my hands — my hands!"
"Then kill him, fool, and be done!"
"AAAARGH!"
"KILL HIM! KILL HIM!” and other voices, maybe in Harry’s own head, crying, “Harry! Harry!"
"Good afternoon, Harry,"
"Sir! The Stone! It was Quirrell! He’s got the Stone! Sir, quick —"
"Calm yourself, dear boy, you are a little behind the times,” said Dumbledore. “Quirrell does not have the Stone."
"Then who does? Sir, I —"
"Harry, please relax, or Madam Pomfrey will have me thrown out."
"Tokens from your friends and admirers,” said Dumbledore, beaming. “What happened down in the dungeons between you and Professor Quirrell is a complete secret, so, naturally, the whole school knows. I believe your friends Misters Fred and George Weasley were responsible for trying to send you a toilet seat. No doubt they thought it would amuse you. Madam Pomfrey, however, felt it might not be very hygienic, and confiscated it."
"How long have I been in here?"
"Three days. Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Granger will be most relieved you have come round, they have been extremely worried."
"But sir, the Stone —"
"I see you are not to be distracted. Very well, the Stone. Professor Quirrell did not manage to take it from you. I arrived in time to prevent that, although you were doing very well on your own, I must say."
"You got there? You got Hermione’s owl?"
"We must have crossed in midair. No sooner had I reached London than it became clear to me that the place I should be was the one I had just left. I arrived just in time to pull Quirrell off you —"
"It was you."
"I feared I might be too late."
"You nearly were, I couldn’t have kept him off the Stone much longer —"
"Not the Stone, boy, you — the effort involved nearly killed you. For one terrible moment there, I was afraid it had. As for the Stone, it has been destroyed."
"Destroyed?” said Harry blankly. “But your friend — Nicolas Flamel —"
"Oh, you know about Nicolas?” said Dumbledore, sounding quite delighted. “You did do the thing properly, didn’t you? Well, Nicolas and I have had a little chat, and agreed it’s all for the best."
"But that means he and his wife will die, won’t they?"
"They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in order and then, yes, they will die."
"To one as young as you, I’m sure it seems incredible, but to Nicolas and Perenelle, it really is like going to bed after a very, very long day. After all, to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure. You know, the Stone was really not such a wonderful thing. As much money and life as you could want! The two things most human beings would choose above all — the trouble is, humans do have a knack of choosing precisely those things that are worst for them."
"Sir?” said Harry. “I’ve been thinking . . . Sir — even if the Stone’s gone, Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who —"
"Call him Voldemort, Harry. Always use the proper name for things. Fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself."
"Yes, sir. Well, Voldemort’s going to try other ways of coming back, isn’t he? I mean, he hasn’t gone, has he?"
"No, Harry, he has not. He is still out there somewhere, perhaps looking for another body to share . . . not being truly alive, he cannot be killed. He left Quirrell to die; he shows just as little mercy to his followers as his enemies. Nevertheless, Harry, while you may only have delayed his return to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared to fight what seems a losing battle next time — and if he is delayed again, and again, why, he may never return to power."
"Sir, there are some other things I’d like to know, if you can tell me . . . things I want to know the truth about. . . ."
"The truth.” Dumbledore sighed. “It is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great caution. However, I shall answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to, in which case I beg you’ll forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie."
"Well . . . Voldemort said that he only killed my mother because she tried to stop him from killing me. But why would he want to kill me in the first place?"
"Alas, the first thing you ask me, I cannot tell you. Not today. Not now. You will know, one day . . . put it from your mind for now, Harry. When you are older . . . I know you hate to hear this . . . when you are ready, you will know."
"But why couldn’t Quirrell touch me?"
"Your mother died to save you. If there is one thing Voldemort cannot understand, it is love. He didn’t realize that love as powerful as your mother’s for you leaves its own mark. Not a scar, no visible sign . . . to have been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone, will give us some protection forever. It is in your very skin. Quirrell, full of hatred, greed, and ambition, sharing his soul with Voldemort, could not touch you for this reason. It was agony to touch a person marked by something so good."
"And the Invisibility Cloak — do you know who sent it to me?"
"Ah — your father happened to leave it in my possession, and I thought you might like it.” Dumbledore’s eyes twinkled. “Useful things . . . your father used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal food when he was here."
"And there’s something else . . ."
"Fire away."
"Quirrell said Snape —"
"Professor Snape, Harry."
"Yes, him — Quirrell said he hates me because he hated my father. Is that true?"
"Well, they did rather detest each other. Not unlike yourself and Mr. Malfoy. And then, your father did something Snape could never forgive."
"What?"
"He saved his life."
"What?"
"Yes . . .” said Dumbledore dreamily. “Funny, the way people’s minds work, isn’t it? Professor Snape couldn’t bear being in your father’s debt. . . . I do believe he worked so hard to protect you this year because he felt that would make him and your father even. Then he could go back to hating your father’s memory in peace. . . ."
"And sir, there’s one more thing . . ."
"Just the one?"
"How did I get the Stone out of the mirror?"
"Ah, now, I’m glad you asked me that. It was one of my more brilliant ideas, and between you and me, that’s saying something. You see, only one who wanted to find the Stone — find it, but not use it — would be able to get it, otherwise they’d just see themselves making gold or drinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises even me sometimes. . . . Now, enough questions. I suggest you make a start on these sweets. Ah! Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans! I was unfortunate enough in my youth to come across a vomit-flavored one, and since then I’m afraid I’ve rather lost my liking for them — but I think I’ll be safe with a nice toffee, don’t you?"
"Alas! Ear wax!"
"Just five minutes,"
"Absolutely not."
"You let Professor Dumbledore in. . . ."
"Well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite different. You need rest."
"I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on, Madam Pomfrey . . ."
"Oh, very well,” she said. “But five minutes only."
"Harry!"
"Oh, Harry, we were sure you were going to — Dumbledore was so worried —"
"The whole school’s talking about it,” said Ron. “What really happened?"
"So the Stone’s gone?” said Ron finally. “Flamel’s just going to die?"
"That’s what I said, but Dumbledore thinks that — what was it? —‘to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.’"
"I always said he was off his rocker,"
"So what happened to you two?"
"Well, I got back all right,” said Hermione. “I brought Ron round — that took a while — and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact Dumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall — he already knew — he just said, ‘Harry’s gone after him, hasn’t he?’ and hurtled off to the third floor."
"D’you think he meant you to do it?” said Ron. “Sending you your father’s Cloak and everything?"
"Well,” Hermione exploded, “if he did — I mean to say — that’s terrible — you could have been killed."
"No, it isn’t,” said Harry thoughtfully. “He’s a funny man, Dumbledore. I think he sort of wanted to give me a chance. I think he knows more or less everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon he had a pretty good idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping us, he just taught us enough to help. I don’t think it was an accident he let me find out how the mirror worked. It’s almost like he thought I had the right to face Voldemort if I could. . . ."
"Yeah, Dumbledore’s off his rocker, all right,” said Ron proudly. “Listen, you’ve got to be up for the end-of-year feast tomorrow. The points are all in and Slytherin won, of course — you missed the last Quidditch match, we were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you — but the food’ll be good."
"You’ve had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT,"
"I want to go to the feast,” he told Madam Pomfrey as she straightened his many candy boxes. “I can, can’t I?"
"Professor Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go,” she said sniffily, as though in her opinion Professor Dumbledore didn’t realize how risky feasts could be. “And you have another visitor."
"Oh, good,” said Harry. “Who is it?"
"It’s — all — my — ruddy — fault!” he sobbed, his face in his hands. “I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I told him! It was the only thing he didn’t know, an’ I told him! Yeh could’ve died! All fer a dragon egg! I’ll never drink again! I should be chucked out an’ made ter live as a Muggle!"
"Hagrid!” said Harry, shocked to see Hagrid shaking with grief and remorse, great tears leaking down into his beard. “Hagrid, he’d have found out somehow, this is Voldemort we’re talking about, he’d have found out even if you hadn’t told him."
"Yeh could’ve died!” sobbed Hagrid. “An’ don’ say the name!"
"VOLDEMORT!” Harry bellowed, and Hagrid was so shocked, he stopped crying. “I’ve met him and I’m calling him by his name. Please cheer up, Hagrid, we saved the Stone, it’s gone, he can’t use it. Have a Chocolate Frog, I’ve got loads. . . ."
"That reminds me. I’ve got yeh a present."
"It’s not a stoat sandwich, is it?"
"Nah. Dumbledore gave me the day off yesterday ter fix it. ’Course, he shoulda sacked me instead — anyway, got yeh this . . ."
"Sent owls off ter all yer parents’ old school friends, askin’ fer photos . . . knew yeh didn’ have any . . . d’yeh like it?"
"Another year gone!"
"Now, as I understand it, the House Cup here needs awarding, and the points stand thus: In fourth place, Gryffindor, with three hundred and twelve points; in third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two; Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin, four hundred and seventy-two."
"Yes, yes, well done, Slytherin,” said Dumbledore. “However, recent events must be taken into account."
"Ahem,"
"First — to Mr. Ronald Weasley . . ."
". . . for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has seen in many years, I award Gryffindor House fifty points."
"My brother, you know! My youngest brother! Got past McGonagall’s giant chess set!"
"Second — to Miss Hermione Granger . . . for the use of cool logic in the face of fire, I award Gryffindor House fifty points."
"Third — to Mr. Harry Potter . . .” said Dumbledore. The room went deadly quiet. “. . . for pure nerve and outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor House sixty points."
"There are all kinds of courage,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Neville Longbottom."
"Which means,” Dumbledore called over the storm of applause, for even Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of Slytherin, “we need a little change of decoration."
"I always hope they’ll forget to give us these,"
"You must come and stay this summer,” said Ron, “both of you — I’ll send you an owl."
"Thanks,” said Harry, “I’ll need something to look forward to."
"Bye, Harry!"
"See you, Potter!"
"Still famous,"
"Not where I’m going, I promise you,"
"There he is, Mum, there he is, look!"
"Harry Potter!” she squealed. “Look, Mum! I can see —"
"Be quiet, Ginny, and it’s rude to point."
"Busy year?"
"Very,” said Harry. “Thanks for the fudge and the sweater, Mrs. Weasley."
"Oh, it was nothing, dear."
"Ready, are you?"
"You must be Harry’s family!"
"In a manner of speaking,” said Uncle Vernon. “Hurry up, boy, we haven’t got all day."
"See you over the summer, then."
"Hope you have — er — a good holiday,"
"Oh, I will,” said Harry, and they were surprised at the grin that was spreading over his face. “They don’t know we’re not allowed to use magic at home. I’m going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer. . . ."
"Third time this week!” he roared across the table. “If you can’t control that owl, it’ll have to go!"
"She’s bored,” he said. “She’s used to flying around outside. If I could just let her out at night —"
"Do I look stupid?” snarled Uncle Vernon, a bit of fried egg dangling from his bushy mustache. “I know what’ll happen if that owl’s let out."
"I want more bacon."
"There’s more in the frying pan, sweetums,” said Aunt Petunia, turning misty eyes on her massive son. “We must build you up while we’ve got the chance. . . . I don’t like the sound of that school food. . . ."
"Nonsense, Petunia, I never went hungry when I was at Smeltings,” said Uncle Vernon heartily. “Dudley gets enough, don’t you, son?"
"Pass the frying pan."
"You’ve forgotten the magic word,"
"I meant ‘please’!” said Harry quickly. “I didn’t mean —"
"WHAT HAVE I TOLD YOU,” thundered his uncle, spraying spit over the table, “ABOUT SAYING THE ‘M’ WORD IN OUR HOUSE?"
"But I —"
"HOW DARE YOU THREATEN DUDLEY!"
"I just —"
"I WARNED YOU! I WILL NOT TOLERATE MENTION OF YOUR ABNORMALITY UNDER THIS ROOF!"
"All right,” said Harry, “all right . . ."
"Now, as we all know, today is a very important day."
"This could well be the day I make the biggest deal of my career,"
"I think we should run through the schedule one more time,” said Uncle Vernon. “We should all be in position at eight o’clock. Petunia, you will be — ?"
"In the lounge,” said Aunt Petunia promptly, “waiting to welcome them graciously to our home."
"Good, good. And Dudley?"
"I’ll be waiting to open the door.” Dudley put on a foul, simpering smile. “May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason?"
"They’ll love him!"
"Excellent, Dudley,” said Uncle Vernon. Then he rounded on Harry. “And you?"
"I’ll be in my bedroom, making no noise and pretending I’m not there,"
"Exactly,” said Uncle Vernon nastily. “I will lead them into the lounge, introduce you, Petunia, and pour them drinks. At eight-fifteen —"
"I’ll announce dinner,"
"And, Dudley, you’ll say —"
"May I take you through to the dining room, Mrs. Mason?"
"My perfect little gentleman!"
"And you?"
"I’ll be in my room, making no noise and pretending I’m not there,"
"Precisely. Now, we should aim to get in a few good compliments at dinner. Petunia, any ideas?"
"Vernon tells me you’re a wonderful golfer, Mr. Mason. . . . Do tell me where you bought your dress, Mrs. Mason. . . ."
"Perfect . . . Dudley?"
"How about — ‘We had to write an essay about our hero at school, Mr. Mason, and I wrote about you.’"
"And you, boy?"
"I’ll be in my room, making no noise and pretending I’m not there,"
"Too right, you will,” said Uncle Vernon forcefully. “The Masons don’t know anything about you and it’s going to stay that way. When dinner’s over, you take Mrs. Mason back to the lounge for coffee, Petunia, and I’ll bring the subject around to drills. With any luck, I’ll have the deal signed and sealed before the news at ten. We’ll be shopping for a vacation home in Majorca this time tomorrow."
"Right — I’m off into town to pick up the dinner jackets for Dudley and me. And you,” he snarled at Harry. “You stay out of your aunt’s way while she’s cleaning."
"Happy birthday to me . . . happy birthday to me . . ."
"I know what day it is,"
"What?"
"I know what day it is,"
"Well done,” said Harry. “So you’ve finally learned the days of the week."
"Today’s your birthday,” sneered Dudley. “How come you haven’t got any cards? Haven’t you even got friends at that freak place?"
"Better not let your mum hear you talking about my school,"
"Why’re you staring at the hedge?"
"I’m trying to decide what would be the best spell to set it on fire,"
"You c-can’t — Dad told you you’re not to do m-magic — he said he’ll chuck you out of the house — and you haven’t got anywhere else to go — you haven’t got any friends to take you —"
"Jiggery pokery!” said Harry in a fierce voice. “Hocus pocus — squiggly wiggly —"
"MUUUUUUM!” howled Dudley, tripping over his feet as he dashed back toward the house. “MUUUUM! He’s doing you know what!"
"Get in here! And walk on the newspaper!"
"Eat quickly! The Masons will be here soon!"
"Upstairs! Hurry!"
"Remember, boy — one sound —"
"May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason?"
"Er — hello,"
"Harry Potter!” said the creature in a high-pitched voice Harry was sure would carry down the stairs. “So long has Dobby wanted to meet you, sir . . . Such an honor it is. . . ."
"Th-thank you,” said Harry, edging along the wall and sinking into his desk chair, next to Hedwig, who was asleep in her large cage. He wanted to ask, “What are you?” but thought it would sound too rude, so instead he said, “Who are you?"
"Dobby, sir. Just Dobby. Dobby the house-elf,"
"Oh — really?” said Harry. “Er — I don’t want to be rude or anything, but — this isn’t a great time for me to have a house-elf in my bedroom."
"Not that I’m not pleased to meet you,” said Harry quickly, “but, er, is there any particular reason you’re here?"
"Oh, yes, sir,” said Dobby earnestly. “Dobby has come to tell you, sir . . . it is difficult, sir . . . Dobby wonders where to begin. . . ."
"Sit down,"
"S-sit down!” he wailed. “Never . . . never ever . . ."
"I’m sorry,” he whispered, “I didn’t mean to offend you or anything —"
"Offend Dobby!” choked the elf. “Dobby has never been asked to sit down by a wizard — like an equal —"
"Shh!"
"You can’t have met many decent wizards,"
"Bad Dobby! Bad Dobby!"
"Don’t — what are you doing?"
"Dobby had to punish himself, sir,” said the elf, who had gone slightly cross-eyed. “Dobby almost spoke ill of his family, sir. . . ."
"Your family?"
"The wizard family Dobby serves, sir. . . . Dobby is a house-elf — bound to serve one house and one family forever. . . ."
"Do they know you’re here?"
"Oh, no, sir, no . . . Dobby will have to punish himself most grievously for coming to see you, sir. Dobby will have to shut his ears in the oven door for this. If they ever knew, sir —"
"But won’t they notice if you shut your ears in the oven door?"
"Dobby doubts it, sir. Dobby is always having to punish himself for something, sir. They lets Dobby get on with it, sir. Sometimes they reminds me to do extra punishments. . . ."
"But why don’t you leave? Escape?"
"A house-elf must be set free, sir. And the family will never set Dobby free . . . Dobby will serve the family until he dies, sir. . . ."
"And I thought I had it bad staying here for another four weeks,” he said. “This makes the Dursleys sound almost human. Can’t anyone help you? Can’t I?"
"Please,” Harry whispered frantically, “please be quiet. If the Dursleys hear anything, if they know you’re here —"
"Harry Potter asks if he can help Dobby . . . Dobby has heard of your greatness, sir, but of your goodness, Dobby never knew. . . ."
"Whatever you’ve heard about my greatness is a load of rubbish. I’m not even top of my year at Hogwarts; that’s Hermione, she —"
"Harry Potter is humble and modest,” said Dobby reverently, his orb-like eyes aglow. “Harry Potter speaks not of his triumph over He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named —"
"Voldemort?"
"Ah, speak not the name, sir! Speak not the name!"
"Sorry,” said Harry quickly. “I know lots of people don’t like it. My friend Ron —"
"Dobby heard tell,” he said hoarsely, “that Harry Potter met the Dark Lord for a second time, just weeks ago . . . that Harry Potter escaped yet again."
"Ah, sir,” he gasped, dabbing his face with a corner of the grubby pillowcase he was wearing. “Harry Potter is valiant and bold! He has braved so many dangers already! But Dobby has come to protect Harry Potter, to warn him, even if he does have to shut his ears in the oven door later. . . . Harry Potter must not go back to Hogwarts."
"W-what?” Harry stammered. “But I’ve got to go back — term starts on September first. It’s all that’s keeping me going. You don’t know what it’s like here. I don’t belong here. I belong in your world — at Hogwarts."
"No, no, no,” squeaked Dobby, shaking his head so hard his ears flapped. “Harry Potter must stay where he is safe. He is too great, too good, to lose. If Harry Potter goes back to Hogwarts, he will be in mortal danger."
"Why?"
"There is a plot, Harry Potter. A plot to make most terrible things happen at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry this year,” whispered Dobby, suddenly trembling all over. “Dobby has known it for months, sir. Harry Potter must not put himself in peril. He is too important, sir!"
"What terrible things?” said Harry at once. “Who’s plotting them?"
"All right!” cried Harry, grabbing the elf’s arm to stop him. “You can’t tell me. I understand. But why are you warning me?” A sudden, unpleasant thought struck him. “Hang on — this hasn’t got anything to do with Vol- — sorry — with You-Know-Who, has it? You could just shake or nod,"
"Not — not He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, sir —"
"He hasn’t got a brother, has he?"
"Well then, I can’t think who else would have a chance of making horrible things happen at Hogwarts,” said Harry. “I mean, there’s Dumbledore, for one thing — you know who Dumbledore is, don’t you?"
"Albus Dumbledore is the greatest headmaster Hogwarts has ever had. Dobby knows it, sir. Dobby has heard Dumbledore’s powers rival those of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named at the height of his strength. But, sir” — Dobby’s voice dropped to an urgent whisper — “there are powers Dumbledore doesn’t . . . powers no decent wizard . . ."
"Dudley must have left his television on again, the little tyke!"
"Quick! In the closet!"
"What — the — devil — are — you — doing?” said Uncle Vernon through gritted teeth, his face horribly close to Harry’s. “You’ve just ruined the punch line of my Japanese golfer joke. . . . One more sound and you’ll wish you’d never been born, boy!"
"See what it’s like here?” he said. “See why I’ve got to go back to Hogwarts? It’s the only place I’ve got — well, I think I’ve got friends."
"Friends who don’t even write to Harry Potter?"
"I expect they’ve just been — wait a minute,” said Harry, frowning. “How do you know my friends haven’t been writing to me?"
"Harry Potter mustn’t be angry with Dobby. Dobby did it for the best —"
"Have you been stopping my letters?"
"Dobby has them here, sir,"
"Harry Potter mustn’t be angry. . . . Dobby hoped . . . if Harry Potter thought his friends had forgotten him . . . Harry Potter might not want to go back to school, sir. . . ."
"Harry Potter will have them, sir, if he gives Dobby his word that he will not return to Hogwarts. Ah, sir, this is a danger you must not face! Say you won’t go back, sir!"
"No,” said Harry angrily. “Give me my friends’ letters!"
"Then Harry Potter leaves Dobby no choice,"
". . . tell Petunia that very funny story about those American plumbers, Mr. Mason. She’s been dying to hear . . ."
"No,” croaked Harry. “Please . . . they’ll kill me. . . ."
"Harry Potter must say he’s not going back to school —"
"Dobby . . . please . . ."
"Say it, sir —"
"I can’t —"
"Then Dobby must do it, sir, for Harry Potter’s own good."
"Just our nephew — very disturbed — meeting strangers upsets him, so we kept him upstairs. . . ."
"Read it!” he hissed evilly, brandishing the letter the owl had delivered. “Go on — read it!"
"You didn’t tell us you weren’t allowed to use magic outside school,” said Uncle Vernon, a mad gleam dancing in his eyes. “Forgot to mention it. . . . Slipped your mind, I daresay. . . ."
"Well, I’ve got news for you, boy. . . . I’m locking you up. . . . You’re never going back to that school . . . never . . . and if you try and magic yourself out — they’ll expel you!"
"It’s no good turning your beak up at it — that’s all we’ve got,"
"Harry Potter is safe there, sir!"
"Stop it,” Harry muttered as the rattling pounded in his sore head. “Leave me alone . . . cut it out . . . I’m trying to sleep. . . ."
"Ron, how did you — What the — ?"
"All right, Harry?"
"What’s been going on?” said Ron. “Why haven’t you been answering my letters? I’ve asked you to stay about twelve times, and then Dad came home and said you’d got an official warning for using magic in front of Muggles —"
"It wasn’t me — and how did he know?"
"He works for the Ministry,” said Ron. “You know we’re not supposed to do spells outside school —"
"You should talk,"
"Oh, this doesn’t count,” said Ron. “We’re only borrowing this. It’s Dad’s, we didn’t enchant it. But doing magic in front of those Muggles you live with —"
"I told you, I didn’t — but it’ll take too long to explain now — look, can you tell them at Hogwarts that the Dursleys have locked me up and won’t let me come back, and obviously I can’t magic myself out, because the Ministry’ll think that’s the second spell I’ve done in three days, so —"
"Stop gibbering,” said Ron. “We’ve come to take you home with us."
"But you can’t magic me out either —"
"We don’t need to,” said Ron, jerking his head toward the front seat and grinning. “You forget who I’ve got with me."
"Tie that around the bars,"
"If the Dursleys wake up, I’m dead,"
"Don’t worry,” said Fred, “and stand back."
"Get in,"
"But all my Hogwarts stuff — my wand — my broomstick —"
"Where is it?"
"Locked in the cupboard under the stairs, and I can’t get out of this room —"
"No problem,” said George from the front passenger seat. “Out of the way, Harry."
"A lot of wizards think it’s a waste of time, knowing this sort of Muggle trick,” said Fred, “but we feel they’re skills worth learning, even if they are a bit slow."
"So — we’ll get your trunk — you grab anything you need from your room and hand it out to Ron,"
"Watch out for the bottom stair — it creaks,"
"A bit more,” panted Fred, who was pulling from inside the car. “One good push —"
"Okay, let’s go,"
"THAT RUDDY OWL!"
"I’ve forgotten Hedwig!"
"Petunia!” roared Uncle Vernon. “He’s getting away! HE’S GETTING AWAY!"
"Put your foot down, Fred!"
"See you next summer!"
"Let Hedwig out,” he told Ron. “She can fly behind us. She hasn’t had a chance to stretch her wings for ages."
"So — what’s the story, Harry?” said Ron impatiently. “What’s been happening?"
"Very fishy,"
"Definitely dodgy,” agreed George. “So he wouldn’t even tell you who’s supposed to be plotting all this stuff?"
"I don’t think he could,” said Harry. “I told you, every time he got close to letting something slip, he started banging his head against the wall."
"What, you think he was lying to me?"
"Well,” said Fred, “put it this way — house-elves have got powerful magic of their own, but they can’t usually use it without their master’s permission. I reckon old Dobby was sent to stop you coming back to Hogwarts. Someone’s idea of a joke. Can you think of anyone at school with a grudge against you?"
"Yes,"
"Draco Malfoy,” Harry explained. “He hates me."
"Draco Malfoy?” said George, turning around. “Not Lucius Malfoy’s son?"
"Must be, it’s not a very common name, is it?” said Harry. “Why?"
"I’ve heard Dad talking about him,” said George. “He was a big supporter of You-Know-Who."
"And when You-Know-Who disappeared,” said Fred, craning around to look at Harry, “Lucius Malfoy came back saying he’d never meant any of it. Load of dung — Dad reckons he was right in You-Know-Who’s inner circle."
"I don’t know whether the Malfoys own a house-elf. . . ."
"Well, whoever owns him will be an old Wizarding family, and they’ll be rich,"
"Yeah, Mum’s always wishing we had a house-elf to do the ironing,” said George. “But all we’ve got is a lousy old ghoul in the attic and gnomes all over the garden. House-elves come with big old manors and castles and places like that; you wouldn’t catch one in our house. . . ."
"I’m glad we came to get you, anyway,” said Ron. “I was getting really worried when you didn’t answer any of my letters. I thought it was Errol’s fault at first —"
"Who’s Errol?"
"Our owl. He’s ancient. It wouldn’t be the first time he’d collapsed on a delivery. So then I tried to borrow Hermes —"
"Who?"
"The owl Mum and Dad bought Percy when he was made prefect,"
"But Percy wouldn’t lend him to me,” said Ron. “Said he needed him."
"Percy’s been acting very oddly this summer,” said George, frowning. “And he has been sending a lot of letters and spending a load of time shut up in his room. . . . I mean, there’s only so many times you can polish a prefect badge. . . . You’re driving too far west, Fred,"
"So, does your dad know you’ve got the car?"
"Er, no,” said Ron, “he had to work tonight. Hopefully we’ll be able to get it back in the garage without Mum noticing we flew it."
"What does your dad do at the Ministry of Magic, anyway?"
"He works in the most boring department,” said Ron. “The Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office."
"The what?"
"It’s all to do with bewitching things that are Muggle-made, you know, in case they end up back in a Muggle shop or house. Like, last year, some old witch died and her tea set was sold to an antiques shop. This Muggle woman bought it, took it home, and tried to serve her friends tea in it. It was a nightmare — Dad was working overtime for weeks."
"What happened?"
"The teapot went berserk and squirted boiling tea all over the place and one man ended up in the hospital with the sugar tongs clamped to his nose. Dad was going frantic — it’s only him and an old warlock called Perkins in the office — and they had to do Memory Charms and all sorts of stuff to cover it up —"
"But your dad — this car —"
"Yeah, Dad’s crazy about everything to do with Muggles; our shed’s full of Muggle stuff. He takes it apart, puts spells on it, and puts it back together again. If he raided our house he’d have to put himself under arrest. It drives Mum mad."
"That’s the main road,” said George, peering down through the windshield. “We’ll be there in ten minutes. . . . Just as well, it’s getting light. . . ."
"We’re a little way outside the village,” said George. “Ottery St. Catchpole."
"Touchdown!"
"It’s not much,"
"It’s wonderful,"
"Now, we’ll go upstairs really quietly,” said Fred, “and wait for Mum to call us for breakfast. Then, Ron, you come bounding downstairs going, ‘Mum, look who turned up in the night!’ and she’ll be all pleased to see Harry and no one need ever know we flew the car."
"Right,” said Ron. “Come on, Harry, I sleep at the — at the top —"
"Ah,"
"Oh, dear,"
"So,"
"Morning, Mum,"
"Have you any idea how worried I’ve been?"
"Sorry, Mum, but see, we had to —"
"Beds empty! No note! Car gone — could have crashed — out of my mind with worry — did you care? — never, as long as I’ve lived — you wait until your father gets home, we never had trouble like this from Bill or Charlie or Percy —"
"Perfect Percy,"
"YOU COULD DO WITH TAKING A LEAF OUT OF PERCY’S BOOK!” yelled Mrs. Weasley, prodding a finger in Fred’s chest. “You could have died, you could have been seen, you could have lost your father his job —"
"I’m very pleased to see you, Harry, dear,” she said. “Come in and have some breakfast."
"Witching Hour, with the popular singing sorceress, Celestina Warbeck."
"don’t know what you were thinking of,” and “never would have believed it."
"I don’t blame you, dear,” she assured Harry, tipping eight or nine sausages onto his plate. “Arthur and I have been worried about you, too. Just last night we were saying we’d come and get you ourselves if you hadn’t written back to Ron by Friday. But really” (she was now adding three fried eggs to his plate), “flying an illegal car halfway across the country — anyone could have seen you —"
"It was cloudy, Mum!"
"You keep your mouth closed while you’re eating!"
"They were starving him, Mum!"
"And you!"
"Ginny,” said Ron in an undertone to Harry. “My sister. She’s been talking about you all summer."
"Yeah, she’ll be wanting your autograph, Harry,"
"Blimey, I’m tired,” yawned Fred, setting down his knife and fork at last. “I think I’ll go to bed and —"
"You will not,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “It’s your own fault you’ve been up all night. You’re going to de-gnome the garden for me; they’re getting completely out of hand again —"
"Oh, Mum —"
"And you two,” she said, glaring at Ron and George. “You can go up to bed, dear,” she added to Harry. “You didn’t ask them to fly that wretched car —"
"I’ll help Ron. I’ve never seen a de-gnoming —"
"That’s very sweet of you, dear, but it’s dull work,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Now, let’s see what Lockhart’s got to say on the subject —"
"Mum, we know how to de-gnome a garden —"
"Oh, he is marvelous,” she said. “He knows his household pests, all right, it’s a wonderful book. . . ."
"Mum fancies him,"
"Don’t be so ridiculous, Fred,” said Mrs. Weasley, her cheeks rather pink. “All right, if you think you know better than Lockhart, you can go and get on with it, and woe betide you if there’s a single gnome in that garden when I come out to inspect it."
"Muggles have garden gnomes, too, you know,"
"Yeah, I’ve seen those things they think are gnomes,” said Ron, bent double with his head in a peony bush, “like fat little Santa Clauses with fishing rods. . . ."
"This is a gnome,"
"Gerroff me! Gerroff me!"
"This is what you have to do,” he said. He raised the gnome above his head (“Gerroff me!”) and started to swing it in great circles like a lasso. Seeing the shocked look on Harry’s face, Ron added, “It doesn’t hurt them — you’ve just got to make them really dizzy so they can’t find their way back to the gnomeholes."
"Pitiful,” said Fred. “I bet I can get mine beyond that stump."
"Wow, Harry — that must’ve been fifty feet. . . ."
"See, they’re not too bright,” said George, seizing five or six gnomes at once. “The moment they know the de-gnoming’s going on they storm up to have a look. You’d think they’d have learned by now just to stay put."
"They’ll be back,” said Ron as they watched the gnomes disappear into the hedge on the other side of the field. “They love it here. . . . Dad’s too soft with them; he thinks they’re funny. . . ."
"He’s back!” said George. “Dad’s home!"
"What a night,” he mumbled, groping for the teapot as they all sat down around him. “Nine raids. Nine! And old Mundungus Fletcher tried to put a hex on me when I had my back turned. . . ."
"Find anything, Dad?"
"All I got were a few shrinking door keys and a biting kettle,” yawned Mr. Weasley. “There was some pretty nasty stuff that wasn’t my department, though. Mortlake was taken away for questioning about some extremely odd ferrets, but that’s the Committee on Experimental Charms, thank goodness. . . ."
"Why would anyone bother making door keys shrink?"
"Just Muggle-baiting,” sighed Mr. Weasley. “Sell them a key that keeps shrinking to nothing so they can never find it when they need it. . . . Of course, it’s very hard to convict anyone because no Muggle would admit their key keeps shrinking — they’ll insist they just keep losing it. Bless them, they’ll go to any lengths to ignore magic, even if it’s staring them in the face. . . . But the things our lot have taken to enchanting, you wouldn’t believe —"
"LIKE CARS, FOR INSTANCE?"
"C-cars, Molly, dear?"
"Yes, Arthur, cars,” said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes flashing. “Imagine a wizard buying a rusty old car and telling his wife all he wanted to do with it was take it apart to see how it worked, while really he was enchanting it to make it fly."
"Well, dear, I think you’ll find that he would be quite within the law to do that, even if — er — he maybe would have done better to, um, tell his wife the truth. . . . There’s a loophole in the law, you’ll find. . . . As long as he wasn’t intending to fly the car, the fact that the car could fly wouldn’t —"
"Arthur Weasley, you made sure there was a loophole when you wrote that law!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “Just so you could carry on tinkering with all that Muggle rubbish in your shed! And for your information, Harry arrived this morning in the car you weren’t intending to fly!"
"Harry?” said Mr. Weasley blankly. “Harry who?"
"Good lord, is it Harry Potter? Very pleased to meet you, Ron’s told us so much about —"
"Your sons flew that car to Harry’s house and back last night!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “What have you got to say about that, eh?"
"Did you really?” said Mr. Weasley eagerly. “Did it go all right? I — I mean,” he faltered as sparks flew from Mrs. Weasley’s eyes, “that — that was very wrong, boys — very wrong indeed. . . ."
"Let’s leave them to it,” Ron muttered to Harry as Mrs. Weasley swelled like a bullfrog. “Come on, I’ll show you my bedroom."
"Ginny,” said Ron. “You don’t know how weird it is for her to be this shy. She never shuts up normally —"
"Your Quidditch team?"
"The Chudley Cannons,” said Ron, pointing at the orange bedspread, which was emblazoned with two giant black C’s and a speeding cannonball. “Ninth in the league."
"It’s a bit small,” said Ron quickly. “Not like that room you had with the Muggles. And I’m right underneath the ghoul in the attic; he’s always banging on the pipes and groaning. . . ."
"This is the best house I’ve ever been in."
"Tuck your shirt in, scruffy!"
"Fascinating!” he would say as Harry talked him through using a telephone. “Ingenious, really, how many ways Muggles have found of getting along without magic."
"Letters from school,” said Mr. Weasley, passing Harry and Ron identical envelopes of yellowish parchment, addressed in green ink. “Dumbledore already knows you’re here, Harry — doesn’t miss a trick, that man. You two’ve got them, too,"
"You’ve been told to get all Lockhart’s books, too!” he said. “The new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher must be a fan — bet it’s a witch."
"That lot won’t come cheap,” said George, with a quick look at his parents. “Lockhart’s books are really expensive. . . ."
"Well, we’ll manage,” said Mrs. Weasley, but she looked worried. “I expect we’ll be able to pick up a lot of Ginny’s things secondhand."
"Oh, are you starting at Hogwarts this year?"
"Morning, all,” said Percy briskly. “Lovely day."
"Errol!” said Ron, taking the limp owl from Percy and extracting a letter from under its wing. “Finally — he’s got Hermione’s answer. I wrote to her saying we were going to try and rescue you from the Dursleys."
"Pathetic."
"‘I’m very busy with schoolwork, of course’ — How can she be?"
"‘Let me know what’s happening as soon as you can. Love from Hermione.’"
"Well, that fits in nicely, we can go and get all your things then, too,” said Mrs. Weasley, starting to clear the table. “What’re you all up to today?"
"Wish I knew what he was up to,” said Fred, frowning. “He’s not himself. His exam results came the day before you did; twelve O.W.L.s and he hardly gloated at all."
"Ordinary Wizarding Levels,” George explained, seeing Harry’s puzzled look. “Bill got twelve, too. If we’re not careful, we’ll have another Head Boy in the family. I don’t think I could stand the shame."
"Dunno how Mum and Dad are going to afford all our school stuff this year,” said George after a while. “Five sets of Lockhart books! And Ginny needs robes and a wand and everything. . . ."
"We’re running low, Arthur,” she sighed. “We’ll have to buy some more today. . . . Ah well, guests first! After you, Harry dear!"
"W-what am I supposed to do?"
"He’s never traveled by Floo powder,” said Ron suddenly. “Sorry, Harry, I forgot."
"Never?” said Mr. Weasley. “But how did you get to Diagon Alley to buy your school things last year?"
"I went on the Underground —"
"Really?” said Mr. Weasley eagerly. “Were there escapators? How exactly —"
"Not now, Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Floo powder’s a lot quicker, dear, but goodness me, if you’ve never used it before —"
"He’ll be all right, Mum,” said Fred. “Harry, watch us first."
"Diagon Alley!"
"You must speak clearly, dear,” Mrs. Weasley told Harry as George dipped his hand into the flowerpot. “And be sure to get out at the right grate. . . ."
"The right what?"
"Well, there are an awful lot of wizard fires to choose from, you know, but as long as you’ve spoken clearly —"
"He’ll be fine, Molly, don’t fuss,"
"But, dear, if he got lost, how would we ever explain to his aunt and uncle?"
"They wouldn’t mind,” Harry reassured her. “Dudley would think it was a brilliant joke if I got lost up a chimney, don’t worry about that —"
"Well . . . all right . . . you go after Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Now, when you get into the fire, say where you’re going —"
"And keep your elbows tucked in,"
"And your eyes shut,” said Mrs. Weasley. “The soot —"
"Don’t fidget,” said Ron. “Or you might well fall out of the wrong fireplace —"
"But don’t panic and get out too early; wait until you see Fred and George."
"D-Dia-gon Alley,"
"Touch nothing, Draco."
"I thought you were going to buy me a present."
"I said I would buy you a racing broom,"
"What’s the good of that if I’m not on the House team?” said Malfoy, looking sulky and bad-tempered. “Harry Potter got a Nimbus Two Thousand last year. Special permission from Dumbledore so he could play for Gryffindor. He’s not even that good, it’s just because he’s famous . . . famous for having a stupid scar on his forehead. . . ."
". . . everyone thinks he’s so smart, wonderful Potter with his scar and his broomstick —"
"You have told me this at least a dozen times already,” said Mr. Malfoy, with a quelling look at his son. “And I would remind you that it is not — prudent — to appear less than fond of Harry Potter, not when most of our kind regard him as the hero who made the Dark Lord disappear — ah, Mr. Borgin."
"Mr. Malfoy, what a pleasure to see you again,” said Mr. Borgin in a voice as oily as his hair. “Delighted — and young Master Malfoy, too — charmed. How may I be of assistance? I must show you, just in today, and very reasonably priced —"
"I’m not buying today, Mr. Borgin, but selling,"
"Selling?"
"You have heard, of course, that the Ministry is conducting more raids,” said Mr. Malfoy, taking a roll of parchment from his inside pocket and unraveling it for Mr. Borgin to read. “I have a few — ah — items at home that might embarrass me, if the Ministry were to call. . . ."
"The Ministry wouldn’t presume to trouble you, sir, surely?"
"I have not been visited yet. The name Malfoy still commands a certain respect, yet the Ministry grows ever more meddlesome. There are rumors about a new Muggle Protection Act — no doubt that flea-bitten, Muggle-loving fool Arthur Weasley is behind it —"
"— and as you see, certain of these poisons might make it appear —"
"I understand, sir, of course,” said Mr. Borgin. “Let me see . . ."
"Can I have that?"
"Ah, the Hand of Glory!” said Mr. Borgin, abandoning Mr. Malfoy’s list and scurrying over to Draco. “Insert a candle and it gives light only to the holder! Best friend of thieves and plunderers! Your son has fine taste, sir."
"I hope my son will amount to more than a thief or a plunderer, Borgin,” said Mr. Malfoy coldly, and Mr. Borgin said quickly, “No offense, sir, no offense meant —"
"Though if his grades don’t pick up,” said Mr. Malfoy, more coldly still, “that may indeed be all he is fit for —"
"It’s not my fault,” retorted Draco. “The teachers all have favorites, that Hermione Granger —"
"I would have thought you’d be ashamed that a girl of no wizard family beat you in every exam,"
"Ha!"
"It’s the same all over,” said Mr. Borgin, in his oily voice. “Wizard blood is counting for less everywhere —"
"Not with me,"
"No, sir, nor with me, sir,"
"In that case, perhaps we can return to my list,” said Mr. Malfoy shortly. “I am in something of a hurry, Borgin, I have important business elsewhere today —"
"Done,” said Mr. Malfoy at the counter. “Come, Draco —"
"Good day to you, Mr. Borgin. I’ll expect you at the manor tomorrow to pick up the goods."
"Good day yourself, Mister Malfoy, and if the stories are true, you haven’t sold me half of what’s hidden in your manor. . . ."
"Not lost are you, my dear?"
"I’m fine, thanks,” he said. “I’m just —"
"HARRY! What d’yeh think yer doin’ down there?"
"Hagrid!” Harry croaked in relief. “I was lost — Floo powder —"
"Yer a mess!” said Hagrid gruffly, brushing soot off Harry so forcefully he nearly knocked him into a barrel of dragon dung outside an apothecary. “Skulkin’ around Knockturn Alley, I dunno — dodgy place, Harry — don’ want no one ter see yeh down there —"
"I realized that,” said Harry, ducking as Hagrid made to brush him off again. “I told you, I was lost — what were you doing down there, anyway?"
"I was lookin’ fer a Flesh-Eatin’ Slug Repellent,” growled Hagrid. “They’re ruinin’ the school cabbages. Yer not on yer own?"
"I’m staying with the Weasleys but we got separated,” Harry explained. “I’ve got to go and find them. . . ."
"How come yeh never wrote back ter me?"
"Lousy Muggles,” growled Hagrid. “If I’d’ve known —"
"Harry! Harry! Over here!"
"What happened to your glasses? Hello, Hagrid — Oh, it’s wonderful to see you two again — Are you coming into Gringotts, Harry?"
"As soon as I’ve found the Weasleys,"
"Yeh won’t have long ter wait,"
"Harry,” Mr. Weasley panted. “We hoped you’d only gone one grate too far. . . .” He mopped his glistening bald patch. “Molly’s frantic — she’s coming now —"
"Where did you come out?"
"Knockturn Alley,"
"Excellent!"
"We’ve never been allowed in,"
"I should ruddy well think not,"
"Oh, Harry — oh, my dear — you could have been anywhere —"
"Well, gotta be off,” said Hagrid, who was having his hand wrung by Mrs. Weasley (“Knockturn Alley! If you hadn’t found him, Hagrid!”). “See yer at Hogwarts!"
"Guess who I saw in Borgin and Burkes?” Harry asked Ron and Hermione as they climbed the Gringotts steps. “Malfoy and his father."
"Did Lucius Malfoy buy anything?"
"No, he was selling —"
"So he’s worried,” said Mr. Weasley with grim satisfaction. “Oh, I’d love to get Lucius Malfoy for something. . . ."
"You be careful, Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley sharply as they were bowed into the bank by a goblin at the door. “That family’s trouble. Don’t go biting off more than you can chew —"
"So you don’t think I’m a match for Lucius Malfoy?"
"But you’re Muggles!” said Mr. Weasley delightedly. “We must have a drink! What’s that you’ve got there? Oh, you’re changing Muggle money. Molly, look!"
"Meet you back here,"
"We’ll all meet at Flourish and Blotts in an hour to buy your schoolbooks,” said Mrs. Weasley, setting off with Ginny. “And not one step down Knockturn Alley!"
"A study of Hogwarts prefects and their later careers,” Ron read aloud off the back cover. “That sounds fascinating. . . ."
"Go away,"
"’Course, he’s very ambitious, Percy, he’s got it all planned out. . . . He wants to be Minister of Magic . . ."
"We can actually meet him!” Hermione squealed. “I mean, he’s written almost the whole booklist!"
"Calmly, please, ladies. . . . Don’t push, there . . . mind the books, now. . . ."
"Oh, there you are, good,” said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded breathless and kept patting her hair. “We’ll be able to see him in a minute. . . ."
"Out of the way, there,” he snarled at Ron, moving back to get a better shot. “This is for the Daily Prophet —"
"Big deal,"
"It can’t be Harry Potter?"
"Nice big smile, Harry,” said Lockhart, through his own gleaming teeth. “Together, you and I are worth the front page."
"Ladies and gentlemen,"
"When young Harry here stepped into Flourish and Blotts today, he only wanted to buy my autobiography — which I shall be happy to present him now, free of charge —” The crowd applauded again. “He had no idea,” Lockhart continued, giving Harry a little shake that made his glasses slip to the end of his nose, “that he would shortly be getting much, much more than my book, Magical Me. He and his schoolmates will, in fact, be getting the real magical me. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have great pleasure and pride in announcing that this September, I will be taking up the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry!"
"You have these,” Harry mumbled to her, tipping the books into the cauldron. “I’ll buy my own —"
"Bet you loved that, didn’t you, Potter?"
"Famous Harry Potter,” said Malfoy. “Can’t even go into a bookshop without making the front page."
"Leave him alone, he didn’t want all that!"
"Potter, you’ve got yourself a girlfriend!"
"Oh, it’s you,” said Ron, looking at Malfoy as if he were something unpleasant on the sole of his shoe. “Bet you’re surprised to see Harry here, eh?"
"Not as surprised as I am to see you in a shop, Weasley,” retorted Malfoy. “I suppose your parents will go hungry for a month to pay for all those."
"Ron!” said Mr. Weasley, struggling over with Fred and George. “What are you doing? It’s too crowded in here, let’s go outside."
"Well, well, well — Arthur Weasley."
"Lucius,"
"Busy time at the Ministry, I hear,” said Mr. Malfoy. “All those raids . . . I hope they’re paying you overtime?"
"Obviously not,” Mr. Malfoy said. “Dear me, what’s the use of being a disgrace to the name of wizard if they don’t even pay you well for it?"
"We have a very different idea of what disgraces the name of wizard, Malfoy,"
"Clearly,” said Mr. Malfoy, his pale eyes straying to Mr. and Mrs. Granger, who were watching apprehensively. “The company you keep, Weasley . . . and I thought your family could sink no lower —"
"Get him, Dad!” from Fred or George; Mrs. Weasley was shrieking, “No, Arthur, no!”; the crowd stampeded backward, knocking more shelves over; “Gentlemen, please — please!"
"Break it up, there, gents, break it up —"
"Here, girl — take your book — it’s the best your father can give you —"
"Yeh should’ve ignored him, Arthur,” said Hagrid, almost lifting Mr. Weasley off his feet as he straightened his robes. “Rotten ter the core, the whole family, everyone knows that — no Malfoy’s worth listenin’ ter — bad blood, that’s what it is — come on now — let’s get outta here."
"A fine example to set for your children . . . brawling in public . . . what Gilderoy Lockhart must’ve thought —"
"He was pleased,” said Fred. “Didn’t you hear him as we were leaving? He was asking that bloke from the Daily Prophet if he’d be able to work the fight into his report — said it was all publicity —"
"Not a word to Molly,"
"Muggles do know more than we give them credit for, don’t they?” She and Ginny got into the front seat, which had been stretched so that it resembled a park bench. “I mean, you’d never know it was this roomy from the outside, would you?"
"Molly, dear —"
"No, Arthur —"
"No one would see — this little button here is an Invisibility Booster I installed — that’d get us up in the air — then we fly above the clouds. We’d be there in ten minutes and no one would be any the wiser —"
"I said no, Arthur, not in broad daylight —"
"Percy first,"
"I’ll take Ginny and you two come right after us,"
"Let’s go together, we’ve only got a minute,"
"What in blazes d’you think you’re doing?"
"Lost control of the trolley,"
"Why can’t we get through?"
"I dunno —"
"We’re going to miss the train,” Ron whispered. “I don’t understand why the gateway’s sealed itself —"
"It’s gone,” said Ron, sounding stunned. “The train’s left. What if Mum and Dad can’t get back through to us? Have you got any Muggle money?"
"The Dursleys haven’t given me pocket money for about six years."
"Can’t hear a thing,” he said tensely. “What’re we going to do? I don’t know how long it’ll take Mum and Dad to get back to us."
"I think we’d better go and wait by the car,” said Harry. “We’re attracting too much atten —"
"Harry!” said Ron, his eyes gleaming. “The car!"
"What about it?"
"We can fly the car to Hogwarts!"
"But I thought —"
"We’re stuck, right? And we’ve got to get to school, haven’t we? And even underage wizards are allowed to use magic if it’s a real emergency, section nineteen or something of the Restriction of Thingy —"
"But your mum and dad . . .” said Harry, pushing against the barrier again in the vain hope that it would give way. “How will they get home?"
"They don’t need the car!” said Ron impatiently. “They know how to Apparate! You know, just vanish and reappear at home! They only bother with Floo powder and the car because we’re all underage and we’re not allowed to Apparate yet. . . ."
"Can you fly it?"
"No problem,” said Ron, wheeling his trolley around to face the exit. “C’mon, let’s go. If we hurry we’ll be able to follow the Hogwarts Express —"
"Check that no one’s watching,"
"Okay,"
"Let’s go,"
"Uh-oh,” said Ron, jabbing at the Invisibility Booster. “It’s faulty —"
"Hold on!"
"Now what?"
"We need to see the train to know what direction to go in,"
"Dip back down again — quickly —"
"I can see it!” Harry yelled. “Right ahead — there!"
"Due north,” said Ron, checking the compass on the dashboard. “Okay, we’ll just have to check on it every half hour or so — hold on —"
"All we’ve got to worry about now are airplanes,"
"Can’t be much further, can it?” croaked Ron, hours later still, as the sun started to sink into their floor of cloud, staining it a deep pink. “Ready for another check on the train?"
"It’s probably just tired,” said Ron. “It’s never been this far before. . . ."
"Not far,” said Ron, more to the car than to Harry, “not far now,"
"There!” Harry shouted, making Ron and Hedwig jump. “Straight ahead!"
"Come on,” Ron said cajolingly, giving the steering wheel a little shake, “nearly there, come on —"
"Come on,"
"Uh-oh,"
"Noooooo!"
"STOP! STOP!"
"WATCH OUT FOR THAT TREE!"
"Are you okay?"
"My wand,” said Ron, in a shaky voice. “Look at my wand —"
"What’s happen — ?"
"Aaargh!"
"Run for it!"
"We’re done for!"
"Reverse!"
"That,” panted Ron, “was close. Well done, car —"
"Come back!” Ron yelled after it, brandishing his broken wand. “Dad’ll kill me!"
"Can you believe our luck?” said Ron miserably, bending down to pick up Scabbers. “Of all the trees we could’ve hit, we had to get one that hits back."
"Come on,” said Harry wearily, “we’d better get up to the school. . . ."
"I think the feast’s already started,” said Ron, dropping his trunk at the foot of the front steps and crossing quietly to look through a brightly lit window. “Hey — Harry — come and look — it’s the Sorting!"
"Hang on . . .” Harry muttered to Ron. “There’s an empty chair at the staff table. . . . Where’s Snape?"
"Maybe he’s ill!"
"Maybe he’s left,” said Harry, “because he missed out on the Defense Against the Dark Arts job again!"
"Or he might have been sacked!” said Ron enthusiastically. “I mean, everyone hates him —"
"Or maybe,” said a very cold voice right behind them, “he’s waiting to hear why you two didn’t arrive on the school train."
"Follow me,"
"In!"
"So,” he said softly, “the train isn’t good enough for the famous Harry Potter and his faithful sidekick Weasley. Wanted to arrive with a bang, did we, boys?"
"No, sir, it was the barrier at King’s Cross, it —"
"Silence!” said Snape coldly. “What have you done with the car?"
"You were seen,” he hissed, showing them the headline: FLYING FORD ANGLIA MYSTIFIES MUGGLES. He began to read aloud: “Two Muggles in London, convinced they saw an old car flying over the Post Office tower . . . at noon in Norfolk, Mrs. Hetty Bayliss, while hanging out her washing . . . Mr. Angus Fleet, of Peebles, reported to police . . . Six or seven Muggles in all. I believe your father works in the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office?” he said, looking up at Ron and smiling still more nastily. “Dear, dear . . . his own son . . ."
"I noticed, in my search of the park, that considerable damage seems to have been done to a very valuable Whomping Willow,"
"That tree did more damage to us than we —"
"Silence!” snapped Snape again. “Most unfortunately, you are not in my House and the decision to expel you does not rest with me. I shall go and fetch the people who do have that happy power. You will wait here."
"Sit,"
"Explain,"
"— so we had no choice, Professor, we couldn’t get on the train."
"Why didn’t you send us a letter by owl? I believe you have an owl?"
"I — I didn’t think —"
"That,” said Professor McGonagall, “is obvious."
"Please explain why you did this."
"We’ll go and get our stuff,"
"What are you talking about, Weasley?"
"Well, you’re expelling us, aren’t you?"
"Not today, Mr. Weasley,” said Dumbledore. “But I must impress upon both of you the seriousness of what you have done. I will be writing to both your families tonight. I must also warn you that if you do anything like this again, I will have no choice but to expel you."
"Professor Dumbledore, these boys have flouted the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry, caused serious damage to an old and valuable tree — surely acts of this nature —"
"It will be for Professor McGonagall to decide on these boys’ punishments, Severus,” said Dumbledore calmly. “They are in her House and are therefore her responsibility.” He turned to Professor McGonagall. “I must go back to the feast, Minerva, I’ve got to give out a few notices. Come, Severus, there’s a delicious-looking custard tart I want to sample —"
"You’d better get along to the hospital wing, Weasley, you’re bleeding."
"Not much,” said Ron, hastily wiping the cut over his eye with his sleeve. “Professor, I wanted to watch my sister being Sorted —"
"The Sorting Ceremony is over,” said Professor McGonagall. “Your sister is also in Gryffindor."
"Oh, good,"
"And speaking of Gryffindor —” Professor McGonagall said sharply, but Harry cut in: “Professor, when we took the car, term hadn’t started, so — so Gryffindor shouldn’t really have points taken from it — should it?"
"I will not take any points from Gryffindor,” she said, and Harry’s heart lightened considerably. “But you will both get a detention."
"You will eat in here and then go straight up to your dormitory,” she said. “I must also return to the feast."
"I thought we’d had it,"
"So did I,"
"Can you believe our luck, though?” said Ron thickly through a mouthful of chicken and ham. “Fred and George must’ve flown that car five or six times and no Muggle ever saw them.” He swallowed and took another huge bite. “Why couldn’t we get through the barrier?"
"We’ll have to watch our step from now on, though,” he said, taking a grateful swig of pumpkin juice. “Wish we could’ve gone up to the feast. . . ."
"She didn’t want us showing off,” said Ron sagely. “Doesn’t want people to think it’s clever, arriving by flying car."
"Password?"
"Er —"
"There you are! Where have you been? The most ridiculous rumors — someone said you’d been expelled for crashing a flying car —"
"Well, we haven’t been expelled,"
"You’re not telling me you did fly here?"
"Skip the lecture,” said Ron impatiently, “and tell us the new password."
"It’s ‘wattlebird,’” said Hermione impatiently, “but that’s not the point —"
"Brilliant!” yelled Lee Jordan. “Inspired! What an entrance! Flying a car right into the Whomping Willow, people’ll be talking about that one for years —"
"Good for you,” said a fifth year Harry had never spoken to; someone was patting him on the back as though he’d just won a marathon; Fred and George pushed their way to the front of the crowd and said together, “Why couldn’t we’ve come in the car, eh?"
"Got to get upstairs — bit tired,"
"’Night,"
"I know I shouldn’t’ve enjoyed that or anything, but —"
"Unbelievable!"
"Cool,"
"Amazing,"
"Morning,"
"Mail’s due any minute — I think Gran’s sending a few things I forgot."
"Errol!"
"Oh, no —"
"It’s all right, he’s still alive,"
"It’s not that — it’s that."
"What’s the matter?"
"She’s — she’s sent me a Howler,"
"You’d better open it, Ron,” said Neville in a timid whisper. “It’ll be worse if you don’t. My gran sent me one once, and I ignored it and” — he gulped — “it was horrible."
"What’s a Howler?"
"Open it,” Neville urged. “It’ll all be over in a few minutes —"
"— STEALING THE CAR, I WOULDN’T HAVE BEEN SURPRISED IF THEY’D EXPELLED YOU, YOU WAIT TILL I GET HOLD OF YOU, I DON’T SUPPOSE YOU STOPPED TO THINK WHAT YOUR FATHER AND I WENT THROUGH WHEN WE SAW IT WAS GONE —"
"— LETTER FROM DUMBLEDORE LAST NIGHT, I THOUGHT YOUR FATHER WOULD DIE OF SHAME, WE DIDN’T BRING YOU UP TO BEHAVE LIKE THIS, YOU AND HARRY COULD BOTH HAVE DIED —"
"— ABSOLUTELY DISGUSTED — YOUR FATHER’S FACING AN INQUIRY AT WORK, IT’S ENTIRELY YOUR FAULT AND IF YOU PUT ANOTHER TOE OUT OF LINE WE’LL BRING YOU STRAIGHT BACK HOME."
"Well, I don’t know what you expected, Ron, but you —"
"Don’t tell me I deserved it,"
"Oh, hello there!” he called, beaming around at the assembled students. “Just been showing Professor Sprout the right way to doctor a Whomping Willow! But I don’t want you running away with the idea that I’m better at Herbology than she is! I just happen to have met several of these exotic plants on my travels . . ."
"Greenhouse three today, chaps!"
"Harry! I’ve been wanting a word — you don’t mind if he’s a couple of minutes late, do you, Professor Sprout?"
"That’s the ticket,"
"Harry,” said Lockhart, his large white teeth gleaming in the sunlight as he shook his head. “Harry, Harry, Harry."
"When I heard — well, of course, it was all my fault. Could have kicked myself."
"Don’t know when I’ve been more shocked. Flying a car to Hogwarts! Well, of course, I knew at once why you’d done it. Stood out a mile. Harry, Harry, Harry."
"Gave you a taste for publicity, didn’t I?” said Lockhart. “Gave you the bug. You got onto the front page of the paper with me and you couldn’t wait to do it again."
"Oh, no, Professor, see —"
"Harry, Harry, Harry,” said Lockhart, reaching out and grasping his shoulder. “I understand. Natural to want a bit more once you’ve had that first taste — and I blame myself for giving you that, because it was bound to go to your head — but see here, young man, you can’t start flying cars to try and get yourself noticed. Just calm down, all right? Plenty of time for all that when you’re older. Yes, yes, I know what you’re thinking! ‘It’s all right for him, he’s an internationally famous wizard already!’ But when I was twelve, I was just as much of a nobody as you are now. In fact, I’d say I was even more of a nobody! I mean, a few people have heard of you, haven’t they? All that business with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!” He glanced at the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead. “I know, I know — it’s not quite as good as winning Witch Weekly’s Most-Charming-Smile Award five times in a row, as I have — but it’s a start, Harry, it’s a start."
"We’ll be repotting Mandrakes today. Now, who can tell me the properties of the Mandrake?"
"Mandrake, or Mandragora, is a powerful restorative,” said Hermione, sounding as usual as though she had swallowed the textbook. “It is used to return people who have been transfigured or cursed to their original state."
"Excellent. Ten points to Gryffindor,” said Professor Sprout. “The Mandrake forms an essential part of most antidotes. It is also, however, dangerous. Who can tell me why?"
"The cry of the Mandrake is fatal to anyone who hears it,"
"Precisely. Take another ten points,” said Professor Sprout. “Now, the Mandrakes we have here are still very young."
"cry"
"Everyone take a pair of earmuffs,"
"When I tell you to put them on, make sure your ears are completely covered,” said Professor Sprout. “When it is safe to remove them, I will give you the thumbs-up. Right — earmuffs on."
"As our Mandrakes are only seedlings, their cries won’t kill yet,"
"Four to a tray — there is a large supply of pots here — compost in the sacks over there — and be careful of the Venomous Tentacula, it’s teething."
"Justin Finch-Fletchley,” he said brightly, shaking Harry by the hand. “Know who you are, of course, the famous Harry Potter. . . . And you’re Hermione Granger — always top in everything” (Hermione beamed as she had her hand shaken too) “— and Ron Weasley. Wasn’t that your flying car?"
"That Lockhart’s something, isn’t he?"
"My name was down for Eton, you know. I can’t tell you how glad I am I came here instead. Of course, Mother was slightly disappointed, but since I made her read Lockhart’s books I think she’s begun to see how useful it’ll be to have a fully trained wizard in the family. . . ."
"Stupid — useless — thing —"
"Write home for another one,"
"Oh, yeah, and get another Howler back,” said Ron, stuffing the now hissing wand into his bag. “‘It’s your own fault your wand got snapped —’"
"What’ve we got this afternoon?"
"Defense Against the Dark Arts,"
"Why,” demanded Ron, seizing her schedule, “have you outlined all Lockhart’s lessons in little hearts?"
"All right, Harry? I’m — I’m Colin Creevey,” he said breathlessly, taking a tentative step forward. “I’m in Gryffindor, too. D’you think — would it be all right if — can I have a picture?"
"A picture?"
"So I can prove I’ve met you,” said Colin Creevey eagerly, edging further forward. “I know all about you. Everyone’s told me. About how you survived when You-Know-Who tried to kill you and how he disappeared and everything and how you’ve still got a lightning scar on your forehead” (his eyes raked Harry’s hairline) “and a boy in my dormitory said if I develop the film in the right potion, the pictures’ll move.” Colin drew a great shuddering breath of excitement and said, “It’s amazing here, isn’t it? I never knew all the odd stuff I could do was magic till I got the letter from Hogwarts. My dad’s a milkman, he couldn’t believe it either. So I’m taking loads of pictures to send home to him. And it’d be really good if I had one of you” — he looked imploringly at Harry — “maybe your friend could take it and I could stand next to you? And then, could you sign it?"
"Signed photos? You’re giving out signed photos, Potter?"
"Everyone line up!” Malfoy roared to the crowd. “Harry Potter’s giving out signed photos!"
"No, I’m not,” said Harry angrily, his fists clenching. “Shut up, Malfoy."
"You’re just jealous,"
"Jealous?” said Malfoy, who didn’t need to shout anymore: Half the courtyard was listening in. “Of what? I don’t want a foul scar right across my head, thanks. I don’t think getting your head cut open makes you that special, myself."
"Eat slugs, Malfoy,"
"Be careful, Weasley,” sneered Malfoy. “You don’t want to start any trouble or your mummy’ll have to come and take you away from school.” He put on a shrill, piercing voice. “‘If you put another toe out of line’ —"
"Weasley would like a signed photo, Potter,” smirked Malfoy. “It’d be worth more than his family’s whole house —"
"Look out!"
"What’s all this, what’s all this?” Gilderoy Lockhart was striding toward them, his turquoise robes swirling behind him. “Who’s giving out signed photos?"
"Shouldn’t have asked! We meet again, Harry!"
"Come on then, Mr. Creevey,” said Lockhart, beaming at Colin. “A double portrait, can’t do better than that, and we’ll both sign it for you."
"Off you go, move along there,"
"A word to the wise, Harry,” said Lockhart paternally as they entered the building through a side door. “I covered up for you back there with young Creevey — if he was photographing me, too, your schoolmates won’t think you’re setting yourself up so much. . . ."
"Let me just say that handing out signed pictures at this stage of your career isn’t sensible — looks a tad bigheaded, Harry, to be frank. There may well come a time when, like me, you’ll need to keep a stack handy wherever you go, but” — he gave a little chortle — “I don’t think you’re quite there yet."
"You could’ve fried an egg on your face,” said Ron. “You’d better hope Creevey doesn’t meet Ginny, or they’ll be starting a Harry Potter fan club."
"Shut up,” snapped Harry. The last thing he needed was for Lockhart to hear the phrase “Harry Potter fan club."
"Me,” he said, pointing at it and winking as well. “Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner of Witch Weekly’s Most-Charming-Smile Award — but I don’t talk about that. I didn’t get rid of the Bandon Banshee by smiling at her!"
"I see you’ve all bought a complete set of my books — well done. I thought we’d start today with a little quiz. Nothing to worry about — just to check how well you’ve read them, how much you’ve taken in —"
"You have thirty minutes — start — now!"
"Tut, tut — hardly any of you remembered that my favorite color is lilac. I say so in Year with the Yeti. And a few of you need to read Wanderings with Werewolves more carefully — I clearly state in chapter twelve that my ideal birthday gift would be harmony between all magic and non-magic peoples — though I wouldn’t say no to a large bottle of Ogden’s Old Firewhisky!"
". . . but Miss Hermione Granger knew my secret ambition is to rid the world of evil and market my own range of hair-care potions — good girl! In fact” — he flipped her paper over — “full marks! Where is Miss Hermione Granger?"
"Excellent!” beamed Lockhart. “Quite excellent! Take ten points for Gryffindor! And so — to business —"
"Now — be warned! It is my job to arm you against the foulest creatures known to wizardkind! You may find yourselves facing your worst fears in this room. Know only that no harm can befall you whilst I am here. All I ask is that you remain calm."
"I must ask you not to scream,” said Lockhart in a low voice. “It might provoke them."
"Yes,” he said dramatically. “Freshly caught Cornish pixies."
"Yes?"
"Well, they’re not — they’re not very — dangerous, are they?"
"Don’t be so sure!” said Lockhart, waggling a finger annoyingly at Seamus. “Devilish tricky little blighters they can be!"
"Right, then,” Lockhart said loudly. “Let’s see what you make of them!"
"Come on now — round them up, round them up, they’re only pixies,"
"Peskipiksi Pesternomi!"
"Well, I’ll ask you three to just nip the rest of them back into their cage."
"Can you believe him?"
"He just wants to give us some hands-on experience,"
"Hands on?” said Harry, who was trying to grab a pixie dancing out of reach with its tongue out. “Hermione, he didn’t have a clue what he was doing —"
"Rubbish,” said Hermione. “You’ve read his books — look at all those amazing things he’s done —"
"He says he’s done,"
"All right, Harry?” six or seven times a day and hear, “Hello, Colin,"
"Whassamatter?"
"Quidditch practice!” said Wood. “Come on!"
"Oliver,” Harry croaked. “It’s the crack of dawn."
"Exactly,” said Wood. He was a tall and burly sixth year and, at the moment, his eyes were gleaming with a crazed enthusiasm. “It’s part of our new training program. Come on, grab your broom, and let’s go,” said Wood heartily. “None of the other teams have started training yet; we’re going to be first off the mark this year —"
"Good man,” said Wood. “Meet you on the field in fifteen minutes."
"I heard someone saying your name on the stairs, Harry! Look what I’ve got here! I’ve had it developed, I wanted to show you —"
"Will you sign it?"
"No,” said Harry flatly, glancing around to check that the room was really deserted. “Sorry, Colin, I’m in a hurry — Quidditch practice —"
"Oh, wow! Wait for me! I’ve never watched a Quidditch game before!"
"It’ll be really boring,"
"You were the youngest House player in a hundred years, weren’t you, Harry? Weren’t you?” said Colin, trotting alongside him. “You must be brilliant. I’ve never flown. Is it easy? Is that your own broom? Is that the best one there is?"
"I don’t really understand Quidditch,” said Colin breathlessly. “Is it true there are four balls? And two of them fly around trying to knock people off their brooms?"
"Yes,” said Harry heavily, resigned to explaining the complicated rules of Quidditch. “They’re called Bludgers. There are two Beaters on each team who carry clubs to beat the Bludgers away from their side. Fred and George Weasley are the Gryffindor Beaters."
"And what are the other balls for?"
"Well, the Quaffle — that’s the biggish red one — is the one that scores goals. Three Chasers on each team throw the Quaffle to each other and try and get it through the goalposts at the end of the pitch — they’re three long poles with hoops on the end."
"And the fourth ball —"
"— is the Golden Snitch,” said Harry, “and it’s very small, very fast, and difficult to catch. But that’s what the Seeker’s got to do, because a game of Quidditch doesn’t end until the Snitch has been caught. And whichever team’s Seeker gets the Snitch earns his team an extra hundred and fifty points."
"And you’re the Gryffindor Seeker, aren’t you?"
"Yes,” said Harry as they left the castle and started across the dew-drenched grass. “And there’s the Keeper, too. He guards the goalposts. That’s it, really."
"I’ll go and get a good seat, Harry!"
"There you are, Harry, what kept you?” said Wood briskly. “Now, I wanted a quick talk with you all before we actually get onto the field, because I spent the summer devising a whole new training program, which I really think will make all the difference. . . ."
"So,” said Wood, at long last, jerking Harry from a wistful fantasy about what he could be eating for breakfast at this very moment up at the castle. “Is that clear? Any questions?"
"I’ve got a question, Oliver,” said George, who had woken with a start. “Why couldn’t you have told us all this yesterday when we were awake?"
"Now, listen here, you lot,” he said, glowering at them all. “We should have won the Quidditch Cup last year. We’re easily the best team. But unfortunately — owing to circumstances beyond our control —"
"So this year, we train harder than ever before. . . . Okay, let’s go and put our new theories into practice!"
"Aren’t you finished yet?"
"Haven’t even started,” said Harry, looking jealously at the toast and marmalade Ron and Hermione had brought out of the Great Hall. “Wood’s been teaching us new moves."
"What’s that funny clicking noise?"
"Look this way, Harry! This way!"
"Who’s that?"
"No idea,"
"What’s going on?” said Wood, frowning, as he skimmed through the air toward them. “Why’s that first year taking pictures? I don’t like it. He could be a Slytherin spy, trying to find out about our new training program."
"He’s in Gryffindor,"
"And the Slytherins don’t need a spy, Oliver,"
"What makes you say that?"
"Because they’re here in person,"
"I don’t believe it!” Wood hissed in outrage. “I booked the field for today! We’ll see about this!"
"Flint!” Wood bellowed at the Slytherin Captain. “This is our practice time! We got up specially! You can clear off now!"
"Plenty of room for all of us, Wood."
"But I booked the field!” said Wood, positively spitting with rage. “I booked it!"
"Ah,” said Flint. “But I’ve got a specially signed note here from Professor Snape. ‘I, Professor S. Snape, give the Slytherin team permission to practice today on the Quidditch field owing to the need to train their new Seeker.’"
"You’ve got a new Seeker?” said Wood, distracted. “Where?"
"Aren’t you Lucius Malfoy’s son?"
"Funny you should mention Draco’s father,” said Flint as the whole Slytherin team smiled still more broadly. “Let me show you the generous gift he’s made to the Slytherin team."
"Very latest model. Only came out last month,” said Flint carelessly, flicking a speck of dust from the end of his own. “I believe it outstrips the old Two Thousand series by a considerable amount. As for the old Cleansweeps” — he smiled nastily at Fred and George, who were both clutching Cleansweep Fives — “sweeps the board with them."
"Oh, look,” said Flint. “A field invasion."
"What’s happening?” Ron asked Harry. “Why aren’t you playing? And what’s he doing here?"
"I’m the new Slytherin Seeker, Weasley,” said Malfoy, smugly. “Everyone’s just been admiring the brooms my father’s bought our team."
"Good, aren’t they?” said Malfoy smoothly. “But perhaps the Gryffindor team will be able to raise some gold and get new brooms, too. You could raffle off those Cleansweep Fives; I expect a museum would bid for them."
"At least no one on the Gryffindor team had to buy their way in,” said Hermione sharply. “They got in on pure talent."
"No one asked your opinion, you filthy little Mudblood,"
"How dare you!”, and Ron plunged his hand into his robes, pulled out his wand, yelling, “You’ll pay for that one, Malfoy!"
"Ron! Ron! Are you all right?"
"We’d better get him to Hagrid’s, it’s nearest,"
"What happened, Harry? What happened? Is he ill? But you can cure him, can’t you?"
"Oooh,” said Colin, fascinated and raising his camera. “Can you hold him still, Harry?"
"Get out of the way, Colin!"
"Nearly there, Ron,” said Hermione as the gamekeeper’s cabin came into view. “You’ll be all right in a minute — almost there —"
"Quick, behind here,"
"It’s a simple matter if you know what you’re doing!” Lockhart was saying loudly to Hagrid. “If you need help, you know where I am! I’ll let you have a copy of my book. I’m surprised you haven’t already got one — I’ll sign one tonight and send it over. Well, good-bye!"
"Bin wonderin’ when you’d come ter see me — come in, come in — thought you mighta bin Professor Lockhart back again —"
"Better out than in,” he said cheerfully, plunking a large copper basin in front of him. “Get ’em all up, Ron."
"I don’t think there’s anything to do except wait for it to stop,” said Hermione anxiously, watching Ron bend over the basin. “That’s a difficult curse to work at the best of times, but with a broken wand —"
"What did Lockhart want with you, Hagrid?"
"Givin’ me advice on gettin’ kelpies out of a well,” growled Hagrid, moving a half-plucked rooster off his scrubbed table and setting down the teapot. “Like I don’ know. An’ bangin’ on about some banshee he banished. If one word of it was true, I’ll eat my kettle."
"I think you’re being a bit unfair. Professor Dumbledore obviously thought he was the best man for the job —"
"He was the on’y man for the job,” said Hagrid, offering them a plate of treacle toffee, while Ron coughed squelchily into his basin. “An’ I mean the on’y one. Gettin’ very difficult ter find anyone fer the Dark Arts job. People aren’t too keen ter take it on, see. They’re startin’ ter think it’s jinxed. No one’s lasted long fer a while now. So tell me,” said Hagrid, jerking his head at Ron. “Who was he tryin’ ter curse?"
"Malfoy called Hermione something — it must’ve been really bad, because everyone went wild."
"It was bad,” said Ron hoarsely, emerging over the tabletop looking pale and sweaty. “Malfoy called her ‘Mudblood,’ Hagrid —"
"He didn’!"
"He did,” she said. “But I don’t know what it means. I could tell it was really rude, of course —"
"It’s about the most insulting thing he could think of,” gasped Ron, coming back up. “Mudblood’s a really foul name for someone who is Muggle-born — you know, non-magic parents. There are some wizards — like Malfoy’s family — who think they’re better than everyone else because they’re what people call pure-blood.” He gave a small burp, and a single slug fell into his outstretched hand. He threw it into the basin and continued, “I mean, the rest of us know it doesn’t make any difference at all. Look at Neville Longbottom — he’s pure-blood and he can hardly stand a cauldron the right way up."
"An’ they haven’t invented a spell our Hermione can’ do,"
"It’s a disgusting thing to call someone,” said Ron, wiping his sweaty brow with a shaking hand. “Dirty blood, see. Common blood. It’s ridiculous. Most wizards these days are half-blood anyway. If we hadn’t married Muggles we’d’ve died out."
"Well, I don’ blame yeh fer tryin’ ter curse him, Ron,” said Hagrid loudly over the thuds of more slugs hitting the basin. “Bu’ maybe it was a good thing yer wand backfired. ’Spect Lucius Malfoy would’ve come marchin’ up ter school if yeh’d cursed his son. Least yer not in trouble."
"Harry,” said Hagrid abruptly as though struck by a sudden thought. “Gotta bone ter pick with yeh. I’ve heard you’ve bin givin’ out signed photos. How come I haven’t got one?"
"I have not been giving out signed photos,” he said hotly. “If Lockhart’s still spreading that around —"
"I’m on’y jokin’,” he said, patting Harry genially on the back and sending him face first into the table. “I knew yeh hadn’t really. I told Lockhart yeh didn’ need teh. Yer more famous than him without tryin’."
"Bet he didn’t like that,"
"Don’ think he did,” said Hagrid, his eyes twinkling. “An’ then I told him I’d never read one o’ his books an’ he decided ter go. Treacle toffee, Ron?"
"No thanks,” said Ron weakly. “Better not risk it."
"Come an’ see what I’ve bin growin’,"
"Gettin’ on well, aren’t they?” said Hagrid happily. “Fer the Halloween feast . . . should be big enough by then."
"What’ve you been feeding them?"
"Well, I’ve bin givin’ them — you know — a bit o’ help —"
"An Engorgement Charm, I suppose?” said Hermione, halfway between disapproval and amusement. “Well, you’ve done a good job on them."
"That’s what yer little sister said,” said Hagrid, nodding at Ron. “Met her jus’ yesterday.” Hagrid looked sideways at Harry, his beard twitching. “Said she was jus’ lookin’ round the grounds, but I reckon she was hopin’ she might run inter someone else at my house.” He winked at Harry. “If yeh ask me, she wouldn’ say no ter a signed —"
"Oh, shut up,"
"Watch it!"
"There you are, Potter — Weasley.” Professor McGonagall was walking toward them, looking stern. “You will both do your detentions this evening."
"What’re we doing, Professor?"
"You will be polishing the silver in the trophy room with Mr. Filch,” said Professor McGonagall. “And no magic, Weasley — elbow grease."
"And you, Potter, will be helping Professor Lockhart answer his fan mail,"
"Oh n — Professor, can’t I go and do the trophy room, too?"
"Certainly not,” said Professor McGonagall, raising her eyebrows. “Professor Lockhart requested you particularly. Eight o’clock sharp, both of you."
"Filch’ll have me there all night,” said Ron heavily. “No magic! There must be about a hundred cups in that room. I’m no good at Muggle cleaning."
"I’d swap anytime,” said Harry hollowly. “I’ve had loads of practice with the Dursleys. Answering Lockhart’s fan mail . . . he’ll be a nightmare. . . ."
"Ah, here’s the scalawag!” he said. “Come in, Harry, come in —"
"You can address the envelopes!” Lockhart told Harry, as though this was a huge treat. “This first one’s to Gladys Gudgeon, bless her — huge fan of mine —"
"Mmm” and “Right” and “Yeah.” Now and then he caught a phrase like, “Fame’s a fickle friend, Harry,” or “Celebrity is as celebrity does, remember that."
"Come . . . come to me. . . . Let me rip you. . . . Let me tear you. . . . Let me kill you. . . ."
"What?"
"I know!” said Lockhart. “Six solid months at the top of the best-seller list! Broke all records!"
"No,” said Harry frantically. “That voice!"
"Sorry?” said Lockhart, looking puzzled. “What voice?"
"That — that voice that said — didn’t you hear it?"
"What are you talking about, Harry? Perhaps you’re getting a little drowsy? Great Scott — look at the time! We’ve been here nearly four hours! I’d never have believed it — the time’s flown, hasn’t it?"
"My muscles have all seized up,” he groaned, sinking on his bed. “Fourteen times he made me buff up that Quidditch Cup before he was satisfied. And then I had another slug attack all over a Special Award for Services to the School. Took ages to get the slime off. . . . How was it with Lockhart?"
"And Lockhart said he couldn’t hear it?” said Ron. Harry could see him frowning in the moonlight. “D’you think he was lying? But I don’t get it — even someone invisible would’ve had to open the door."
"I know,” said Harry, lying back in his four-poster and staring at the canopy above him. “I don’t get it either."
". . . don’t fulfill their requirements . . . half an inch, if that . . ."
"Hello, Nick,"
"Hello, hello,"
"You look troubled, young Potter,"
"So do you,"
"Ah,” Nearly Headless Nick waved an elegant hand, “a matter of no importance. . . . It’s not as though I really wanted to join. . . . Thought I’d apply, but apparently I ‘don’t fulfill requirements’ —"
"But you would think, wouldn’t you,” he erupted suddenly, pulling the letter back out of his pocket, “that getting hit forty-five times in the neck with a blunt axe would qualify you to join the Headless Hunt?"
"Oh — yes,"
"I mean, nobody wishes more than I do that it had all been quick and clean, and my head had come off properly, I mean, it would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. However —"
"‘We can only accept huntsmen whose heads have parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate that it would be impossible otherwise for members to participate in hunt activities such as Horseback Head-Juggling and Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret, therefore, that I must inform you that you do not fulfill our requirements. With very best wishes, Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore.’"
"Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Harry! Most people would think that’s good and beheaded, but oh, no, it’s not enough for Sir Properly Decapitated-Podmore."
"So — what’s bothering you? Anything I can do?"
"No,” said Harry. “Not unless you know where we can get seven free Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for our match against Sly —"
"You’d better get out of here, Harry,” said Nick quickly. “Filch isn’t in a good mood — he’s got the flu and some third years accidentally plastered frog brains all over the ceiling in dungeon five. He’s been cleaning all morning, and if he sees you dripping mud all over the place —"
"Right,"
"Filth!” he shouted, his jowls aquiver, his eyes popping alarmingly as he pointed at the muddy puddle that had dripped from Harry’s Quidditch robes. “Mess and muck everywhere! I’ve had enough of it, I tell you! Follow me, Potter!"
"Dung,” he muttered furiously, “great sizzling dragon bogies . . . frog brains . . . rat intestines . . . I’ve had enough of it . . . make an example . . . where’s the form . . . yes . . ."
"Name . . . Harry Potter. Crime . . ."
"It was only a bit of mud!"
"It’s only a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me it’s an extra hour scrubbing!” shouted Filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end of his bulbous nose. “Crime . . . befouling the castle . . . suggested sentence . . ."
"PEEVES!” Filch roared, flinging down his quill in a transport of rage. “I’ll have you this time, I’ll have you!"
"I had no memory for incantations and my potions were a family joke! Now, after a Kwikspell course, I am the center of attention at parties and friends beg for the recipe of my Scintillation Solution!"
"My wife used to sneer at my feeble charms, but one month into your fabulous Kwikspell course and I succeeded in turning her into a yak! Thank you, Kwikspell!"
"Lesson One: Holding Your Wand (Some Useful Tips)"
"That Vanishing Cabinet was extremely valuable!” he was saying gleefully to Mrs. Norris. “We’ll have Peeves out this time, my sweet —"
"Have you — did you read — ?"
"No,"
"If I thought you’d read my private — not that it’s mine — for a friend — be that as it may — however —"
"Very well — go — and don’t breathe a word — not that — however, if you didn’t read — go now, I have to write up Peeves’ report — go —"
"Harry! Harry! Did it work?"
"I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filch’s office,” said Nick eagerly. “Thought it might distract him —"
"Was that you?” said Harry gratefully. “Yeah, it worked, I didn’t even get detention. Thanks, Nick!"
"I wish there was something I could do for you about the Headless Hunt,"
"But there is something you could do for me,” said Nick excitedly. “Harry — would I be asking too much — but no, you wouldn’t want —"
"What is it?"
"Well, this Halloween will be my five hundredth deathday,"
"Oh,” said Harry, not sure whether he should look sorry or happy about this. “Right."
"I’m holding a party down in one of the roomier dungeons. Friends will be coming from all over the country. It would be such an honor if you would attend. Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger would be most welcome, too, of course — but I daresay you’d rather go to the school feast?"
"No,” said Harry quickly, “I’ll come —"
"My dear boy! Harry Potter, at my deathday party! And” — he hesitated, looking excited — “do you think you could possibly mention to Sir Patrick how very frightening and impressive you find me?"
"Of — of course,"
"A deathday party?” said Hermione keenly when Harry had changed at last and joined her and Ron in the common room. “I bet there aren’t many living people who can say they’ve been to one of those — it’ll be fascinating!"
"Why would anyone want to celebrate the day they died?” said Ron, who was halfway through his Potions homework and grumpy. “Sounds dead depressing to me. . . ."
"rescued"
"A promise is a promise,” Hermione reminded Harry bossily. “You said you’d go to the deathday party."
"Is that supposed to be music?"
"My dear friends,” he said mournfully. “Welcome, welcome . . . so pleased you could come. . . ."
"Shall we have a look around?"
"Careful not to walk through anyone,"
"Oh, no,” said Hermione, stopping abruptly. “Turn back, turn back, I don’t want to talk to Moaning Myrtle —"
"Who?"
"She haunts one of the toilets in the girls’ bathroom on the first floor,"
"She haunts a toilet?"
"Yes. It’s been out of order all year because she keeps having tantrums and flooding the place. I never went in there anyway if I could avoid it; it’s awful trying to have a pee with her wailing at you —"
"Look, food!"
"Can you taste it if you walk through it?"
"Almost,"
"I expect they’ve let it rot to give it a stronger flavor,"
"Can we move? I feel sick,"
"Hello, Peeves,"
"Nibbles?"
"No thanks,"
"Heard you talking about poor Myrtle,” said Peeves, his eyes dancing. “Rude you was about poor Myrtle.” He took a deep breath and bellowed, “OI! MYRTLE!"
"Oh, no, Peeves, don’t tell her what I said, she’ll be really upset,” Hermione whispered frantically. “I didn’t mean it, I don’t mind her — er, hello, Myrtle."
"What?"
"How are you, Myrtle?” said Hermione in a falsely bright voice. “It’s nice to see you out of the toilet."
"Miss Granger was just talking about you —"
"Just saying — saying — how nice you look tonight,"
"You’re making fun of me,"
"No — honestly — didn’t I just say how nice Myrtle’s looking?"
"Oh, yeah —"
"She did —"
"Don’t lie to me,” Myrtle gasped, tears now flooding down her face, while Peeves chuckled happily over her shoulder. “D’you think I don’t know what people call me behind my back? Fat Myrtle! Ugly Myrtle! Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle!"
"You’ve forgotten pimply,"
"Pimply! Pimply!"
"Oh, dear,"
"Enjoying yourselves?"
"Oh, yes,"
"Not a bad turnout,” said Nearly Headless Nick proudly. “The Wailing Widow came all the way up from Kent. . . . It’s nearly time for my speech, I’d better go and warn the orchestra. . . ."
"Oh, here we go,"
"Nick!” he roared. “How are you? Head still hanging in there?"
"Welcome, Patrick,"
"Live ’uns!"
"Very amusing,"
"Don’t mind Nick!” shouted Sir Patrick’s head from the floor. “Still upset we won’t let him join the Hunt! But I mean to say — look at the fellow —"
"I think,” said Harry hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Nick, “Nick’s very — frightening and — er —"
"Ha!” yelled Sir Patrick’s head. “Bet he asked you to say that!"
"If I could have everyone’s attention, it’s time for my speech!"
"My late lamented lords, ladies, and gentlemen, it is my great sorrow . . ."
"I can’t stand much more of this,"
"Let’s go,"
"Pudding might not be finished yet,"
". . . rip . . . tear . . . kill . . ."
"Harry, what’re you — ?"
"It’s that voice again — shut up a minute —"
". . . soo hungry . . . for so long . . ."
"Listen!"
". . . kill . . . time to kill . . ."
"This way,"
"Harry, what’re we —"
"SHH!"
". . . I smell blood. . . . I SMELL BLOOD!"
"It’s going to kill someone!"
"Harry, what was that all about?” said Ron, wiping sweat off his face. “I couldn’t hear anything. . . ."
"Look!"
"What’s that thing — hanging underneath?"
"Let’s get out of here."
"Shouldn’t we try and help —"
"Trust me,” said Ron. “We don’t want to be found here."
"Enemies of the Heir, beware! You’ll be next, Mudbloods!"
"My cat! My cat! What’s happened to Mrs. Norris?"
"You!” he screeched. “You! You’ve murdered my cat! You’ve killed her! I’ll kill you! I’ll —"
"Argus!"
"Come with me, Argus,” he said to Filch. “You, too, Mr. Potter, Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger."
"My office is nearest, Headmaster — just upstairs — please feel free —"
"Thank you, Gilderoy,"
"It was definitely a curse that killed her — probably the Transmogrifian Torture — I’ve seen it used many times, so unlucky I wasn’t there, I know the very countercurse that would have saved her. . . ."
". . . I remember something very similar happening in Ouagadogou,” said Lockhart, “a series of attacks, the full story’s in my autobiography, I was able to provide the townsfolk with various amulets, which cleared the matter up at once. . . ."
"She’s not dead, Argus,"
"Not dead?” choked Filch, looking through his fingers at Mrs. Norris. “But why’s she all — all stiff and frozen?"
"She has been Petrified,” said Dumbledore (“Ah! I thought so!” said Lockhart). “But how, I cannot say. . . ."
"Ask him!"
"No second year could have done this,” said Dumbledore firmly. “It would take Dark Magic of the most advanced —"
"He did it, he did it!” Filch spat, his pouchy face purpling. “You saw what he wrote on the wall! He found — in my office — he knows I’m a — I’m a —” Filch’s face worked horribly. “He knows I’m a Squib!"
"I never touched Mrs. Norris!” Harry said loudly, uncomfortably aware of everyone looking at him, including all the Lockharts on the walls. “And I don’t even know what a Squib is."
"Rubbish!” snarled Filch. “He saw my Kwikspell letter!"
"If I might speak, Headmaster,"
"Potter and his friends may have simply been in the wrong place at the wrong time,” he said, a slight sneer curling his mouth as though he doubted it. “But we do have a set of suspicious circumstances here. Why was he in the upstairs corridor at all? Why wasn’t he at the Halloween feast?"
". . . there were hundreds of ghosts, they’ll tell you we were there —"
"But why not join the feast afterward?” said Snape, his black eyes glittering in the candlelight. “Why go up to that corridor?"
"Because — because —” Harry said, his heart thumping very fast; something told him it would sound very far-fetched if he told them he had been led there by a bodiless voice no one but he could hear, “because we were tired and wanted to go to bed,"
"Without any supper?” said Snape, a triumphant smile flickering across his gaunt face. “I didn’t think ghosts provided food fit for living people at their parties."
"We weren’t hungry,"
"I suggest, Headmaster, that Potter is not being entirely truthful,” he said. “It might be a good idea if he were deprived of certain privileges until he is ready to tell us the whole story. I personally feel he should be taken off the Gryffindor Quidditch team until he is ready to be honest."
"Really, Severus,” said Professor McGonagall sharply, “I see no reason to stop the boy playing Quidditch. This cat wasn’t hit over the head with a broomstick. There is no evidence at all that Potter has done anything wrong."
"Innocent until proven guilty, Severus,"
"My cat has been Petrified!” he shrieked, his eyes popping. “I want to see some punishment!"
"We will be able to cure her, Argus,” said Dumbledore patiently. “Professor Sprout recently managed to procure some Mandrakes. As soon as they have reached their full size, I will have a potion made that will revive Mrs. Norris."
"I’ll make it,” Lockhart butted in. “I must have done it a hundred times. I could whip up a Mandrake Restorative Draught in my sleep —"
"Excuse me,” said Snape icily. “But I believe I am the Potions master at this school."
"You may go,"
"D’you think I should have told them about that voice I heard?"
"No,” said Ron, without hesitation. “Hearing voices no one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the Wizarding world."
"You do believe me, don’t you?"
"’Course I do,” said Ron quickly. “But — you must admit it’s weird. . . ."
"I know it’s weird,” said Harry. “The whole thing’s weird. What was that writing on the wall about? The Chamber Has Been Opened. . . . What’s that supposed to mean?"
"You know, it rings a sort of bell,” said Ron slowly. “I think someone told me a story about a secret chamber at Hogwarts once . . . might’ve been Bill. . . ."
"And what on earth’s a Squib?"
"Well — it’s not funny really — but as it’s Filch,” he said. “A Squib is someone who was born into a Wizarding family but hasn’t got any magic powers. Kind of the opposite of Muggle-born wizards, but Squibs are quite unusual. If Filch’s trying to learn magic from a Kwikspell course, I reckon he must be a Squib. It would explain a lot. Like why he hates students so much.” Ron gave a satisfied smile. “He’s bitter."
"Midnight,” said Harry. “We’d better get to bed before Snape comes along and tries to frame us for something else."
"breathing loudly” and “looking happy."
"But you haven’t really got to know Mrs. Norris,” Ron told her bracingly. “Honestly, we’re much better off without her.” Ginny’s lip trembled. “Stuff like this doesn’t often happen at Hogwarts,” Ron assured her. “They’ll catch the maniac who did it and have him out of here in no time. I just hope he’s got time to Petrify Filch before he’s expelled. I’m only joking —"
"The Medieval Assembly of European Wizards."
"I don’t believe it, I’m still eight inches short. . . .” said Ron furiously, letting go of his parchment, which sprang back into a roll. “And Hermione’s done four feet seven inches and her writing’s tiny."
"Where is she?"
"Somewhere over there,” said Ron, pointing along the shelves. “Looking for another book. I think she’s trying to read the whole library before Christmas."
"Dunno why you care. I thought he was a bit of an idiot,” said Ron, scribbling away, making his writing as large as possible. “All that junk about Lockhart being so great —"
"All the copies of Hogwarts: A History have been taken out,” she said, sitting down next to Harry and Ron. “And there’s a two-week waiting list. I wish I hadn’t left my copy at home, but I couldn’t fit it in my trunk with all the Lockhart books."
"Why do you want it?"
"The same reason everyone else wants it,” said Hermione, “to read up on the legend of the Chamber of Secrets."
"What’s that?"
"That’s just it. I can’t remember,” said Hermione, biting her lip. “And I can’t find the story anywhere else —"
"Hermione, let me read your composition,"
"No, I won’t,” said Hermione, suddenly severe. “You’ve had ten days to finish it —"
"I only need another two inches, come on —"
"Miss — er — ?"
"Granger, Professor. I was wondering if you could tell us anything about the Chamber of Secrets,"
"My subject is History of Magic,” he said in his dry, wheezy voice. “I deal with facts, Miss Granger, not myths and legends.” He cleared his throat with a small noise like chalk snapping and continued, “In September of that year, a subcommittee of Sardinian sorcerers —"
"Miss Grant?"
"Please, sir, don’t legends always have a basis in fact?"
"Well,” said Professor Binns slowly, “yes, one could argue that, I suppose.” He peered at Hermione as though he had never seen a student properly before. “However, the legend of which you speak is such a very sensational, even ludicrous tale —"
"Oh, very well,"
"You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded over a thousand years ago — the precise date is uncertain — by the four greatest witches and wizards of the age. The four school Houses are named after them: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin. They built this castle together, far from prying Muggle eyes, for it was an age when magic was feared by common people, and witches and wizards suffered much persecution."
"For a few years, the founders worked in harmony together, seeking out youngsters who showed signs of magic and bringing them to the castle to be educated. But then disagreements sprang up between them. A rift began to grow between Slytherin and the others. Slytherin wished to be more selective about the students admitted to Hogwarts. He believed that magical learning should be kept within all-magic families. He disliked taking students of Muggle parentage, believing them to be untrustworthy. After a while, there was a serious argument on the subject between Slytherin and Gryffindor, and Slytherin left the school."
"Reliable historical sources tell us this much,"
"Slytherin, according to the legend, sealed the Chamber of Secrets so that none would be able to open it until his own true heir arrived at the school. The heir alone would be able to unseal the Chamber of Secrets, unleash the horror within, and use it to purge the school of all who were unworthy to study magic."
"The whole thing is arrant nonsense, of course,” he said. “Naturally, the school has been searched for evidence of such a chamber, many times, by the most learned witches and wizards. It does not exist. A tale told to frighten the gullible."
"Sir — what exactly do you mean by the ‘horror within’ the Chamber?"
"That is believed to be some sort of monster, which the Heir of Slytherin alone can control,"
"I tell you, the thing does not exist,” said Professor Binns, shuffling his notes. “There is no Chamber and no monster."
"But, sir,” said Seamus Finnigan, “if the Chamber can only be opened by Slytherin’s true heir, no one else would be able to find it, would they?"
"Nonsense, O’Flaherty,” said Professor Binns in an aggravated tone. “If a long succession of Hogwarts headmasters and headmistresses haven’t found the thing —"
"But, Professor,” piped up Parvati Patil, “you’d probably have to use Dark Magic to open it —"
"Just because a wizard doesn’t use Dark Magic doesn’t mean he can’t, Miss Pennyfeather,” snapped Professor Binns. “I repeat, if the likes of Dumbledore —"
"But maybe you’ve got to be related to Slytherin, so Dumbledore couldn’t —"
"That will do,” he said sharply. “It is a myth! It does not exist! There is not a shred of evidence that Slytherin ever built so much as a secret broom cupboard! I regret telling you such a foolish story! We will return, if you please, to history, to solid, believable, verifiable fact!"
"I always knew Salazar Slytherin was a twisted old loony,” Ron told Harry and Hermione as they fought their way through the teeming corridors at the end of the lesson to drop off their bags before dinner. “But I never knew he started all this pure-blood stuff. I wouldn’t be in his House if you paid me. Honestly, if the Sorting Hat had tried to put me in Slytherin, I’d’ve got the train straight back home. . . ."
"Hiya, Harry!"
"Hullo, Colin,"
"Harry — Harry — a boy in my class has been saying you’re —"
"See you, Harry!"
"What’s a boy in his class saying about you?"
"That I’m Slytherin’s heir, I expect,"
"People here’ll believe anything,"
"D’you really think there’s a Chamber of Secrets?"
"I don’t know,” she said, frowning. “Dumbledore couldn’t cure Mrs. Norris, and that makes me think that whatever attacked her might not be — well — human."
"The Chamber of Secrets Has Been Opened."
"That’s where Filch has been keeping guard,"
"Can’t hurt to have a poke around,"
"Scorch marks!” he said. “Here — and here —"
"Come and look at this!” said Hermione. “This is funny. . . ."
"Have you ever seen spiders act like that?"
"No,” said Harry, “have you, Ron? Ron?"
"What’s up?"
"I — don’t — like — spiders,"
"I never knew that,” said Hermione, looking at Ron in surprise. “You’ve used spiders in Potions loads of times. . . ."
"I don’t mind them dead,” said Ron, who was carefully looking anywhere but at the window. “I just don’t like the way they move. . . ."
"It’s not funny,” said Ron, fiercely. “If you must know, when I was three, Fred turned my — my teddy bear into a great big filthy spider because I broke his toy broomstick. . . . You wouldn’t like them either if you’d been holding your bear and suddenly it had too many legs and . . ."
"Remember all that water on the floor? Where did that come from? Someone’s mopped it up."
"It was about here,” said Ron, recovering himself to walk a few paces past Filch’s chair and pointing. “Level with this door."
"What’s the matter?"
"Can’t go in there,” said Ron gruffly. “That’s a girls’ toilet."
"Oh, Ron, there won’t be anyone in there,” said Hermione, standing up and coming over. “That’s Moaning Myrtle’s place. Come on, let’s have a look."
"Hello, Myrtle, how are you?"
"This is a girls’ bathroom,” she said, eyeing Ron and Harry suspiciously. “They’re not girls."
"No,” Hermione agreed. “I just wanted to show them how — er — nice it is in here."
"Ask her if she saw anything,"
"What are you whispering?"
"Nothing,” said Harry quickly. “We wanted to ask —"
"I wish people would stop talking behind my back!” said Myrtle, in a voice choked with tears. “I do have feelings, you know, even if I am dead —"
"Myrtle, no one wants to upset you,” said Hermione. “Harry only —"
"No one wants to upset me! That’s a good one!” howled Myrtle. “My life was nothing but misery at this place and now people come along ruining my death!"
"We wanted to ask you if you’ve seen anything funny lately,” said Hermione quickly. “Because a cat was attacked right outside your front door on Halloween."
"Did you see anyone near here that night?"
"I wasn’t paying attention,” said Myrtle dramatically. “Peeves upset me so much I came in here and tried to kill myself. Then, of course, I remembered that I’m — that I’m —"
"Already dead,"
"Honestly, that was almost cheerful for Myrtle. . . . Come on, let’s go."
"RON!"
"That’s a girls’ bathroom!” he gasped. “What were you — ?"
"Just having a look around,” Ron shrugged. “Clues, you know —"
"Get — away — from — there —” Percy said, striding toward them and starting to bustle them along, flapping his arms. “Don’t you care what this looks like? Coming back here while everyone’s at dinner —"
"Why shouldn’t we be here?” said Ron hotly, stopping short and glaring at Percy. “Listen, we never laid a finger on that cat!"
"That’s what I told Ginny,” said Percy fiercely, “but she still seems to think you’re going to be expelled, I’ve never seen her so upset, crying her eyes out, you might think of her, all the first years are thoroughly overexcited by this business —"
"You don’t care about Ginny,” said Ron, whose ears were now reddening. “You’re just worried I’m going to mess up your chances of being Head Boy —"
"Five points from Gryffindor!” Percy said tersely, fingering his prefect badge. “And I hope it teaches you a lesson! No more detective work, or I’ll write to Mum!"
"Who can it be, though?” she said in a quiet voice, as though continuing a conversation they had just been having. “Who’d want to frighten all the Squibs and Muggle-borns out of Hogwarts?"
"Let’s think,” said Ron in mock puzzlement. “Who do we know who thinks Muggle-borns are scum?"
"If you’re talking about Malfoy —"
"Of course I am!” said Ron. “You heard him — ‘You’ll be next, Mudbloods!’ — come on, you’ve only got to look at his foul rat face to know it’s him —"
"Malfoy, the Heir of Slytherin?"
"Look at his family,” said Harry, closing his books, too. “The whole lot of them have been in Slytherin; he’s always boasting about it. They could easily be Slytherin’s descendants. His father’s definitely evil enough."
"They could’ve had the key to the Chamber of Secrets for centuries!” said Ron. “Handing it down, father to son. . . ."
"Well,” said Hermione cautiously, “I suppose it’s possible. . . ."
"But how do we prove it?"
"There might be a way,” said Hermione slowly, dropping her voice still further with a quick glance across the room at Percy. “Of course, it would be difficult. And dangerous, very dangerous. We’d be breaking about fifty school rules, I expect —"
"If, in a month or so, you feel like explaining, you will let us know, won’t you?"
"All right,” said Hermione coldly. “What we’d need to do is to get inside the Slytherin common room and ask Malfoy a few questions without him realizing it’s us."
"But that’s impossible,"
"No, it’s not,” said Hermione. “All we’d need would be some Polyjuice Potion."
"What’s that?"
"Snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago —"
"D’you think we’ve got nothing better to do in Potions than listen to Snape?"
"It transforms you into somebody else. Think about it! We could change into three of the Slytherins. No one would know it was us. Malfoy would probably tell us anything. He’s probably boasting about it in the Slytherin common room right now, if only we could hear him."
"This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,” said Ron, frowning. “What if we were stuck looking like three of the Slytherins forever?"
"It wears off after a while,” said Hermione, waving her hand impatiently. “But getting hold of the recipe will be very difficult. Snape said it was in a book called Moste Potente Potions and it’s bound to be in the Restricted Section of the library."
"Hard to see why we’d want the book, really,” said Ron, “if we weren’t going to try and make one of the potions."
"I think,” said Hermione, “that if we made it sound as though we were just interested in the theory, we might stand a chance. . . ."
"Oh, come on, no teacher’s going to fall for that,” said Ron. “They’d have to be really thick. . . ."
"Nice loud howl, Harry — exactly — and then, if you’ll believe it, I pounced — like this — slammed him to the floor — thus — with one hand, I managed to hold him down — with my other, I put my wand to his throat — I then screwed up my remaining strength and performed the immensely complex Homorphus Charm — he let out a piteous moan — go on, Harry — higher than that — good — the fur vanished — the fangs shrank — and he turned back into a man. Simple, yet effective — and another village will remember me forever as the hero who delivered them from the monthly terror of werewolf attacks."
"Homework — compose a poem about my defeat of the Wagga Wagga Werewolf! Signed copies of Magical Me to the author of the best one!"
"Ready?"
"Wait till everyone’s gone,” said Hermione nervously. “All right . . ."
"Er — Professor Lockhart?” Hermione stammered. “I wanted to — to get this book out of the library. Just for background reading.” She held out the piece of paper, her hand shaking slightly. “But the thing is, it’s in the Restricted Section of the library, so I need a teacher to sign for it — I’m sure it would help me understand what you say in Gadding with Ghouls about slow-acting venoms —"
"Ah, Gadding with Ghouls!” said Lockhart, taking the note from Hermione and smiling widely at her. “Possibly my very favorite book. You enjoyed it?"
"Oh, yes,” said Hermione eagerly. “So clever, the way you trapped that last one with the tea-strainer —"
"Well, I’m sure no one will mind me giving the best student of the year a little extra help,” said Lockhart warmly, and he pulled out an enormous peacock quill. “Yes, nice, isn’t it?” he said, misreading the revolted look on Ron’s face. “I usually save it for book signings."
"So, Harry,” said Lockhart, while Hermione folded the note with fumbling fingers and slipped it into her bag. “Tomorrow’s the first Quidditch match of the season, I believe? Gryffindor against Slytherin, is it not? I hear you’re a useful player. I was a Seeker, too. I was asked to try for the National Squad, but preferred to dedicate my life to the eradication of the Dark Forces. Still, if ever you feel the need for a little private training, don’t hesitate to ask. Always happy to pass on my expertise to less able players. . . ."
"I don’t believe it,” he said as the three of them examined the signature on the note. “He didn’t even look at the book we wanted."
"That’s because he’s a brainless git,” said Ron. “But who cares, we’ve got what we needed —"
"He is not a brainless git,"
"Just because he said you were the best student of the year —"
"Moste Potente Potions?"
"I was wondering if I could keep it,"
"Oh, come on,” said Ron, wrenching it from her grasp and thrusting it at Madam Pince. “We’ll get you another autograph. Lockhart’ll sign anything if it stands still long enough."
"Here it is,"
"This is the most complicated potion I’ve ever seen,” said Hermione as they scanned the recipe. “Lacewing flies, leeches, fluxweed, and knotgrass,” she murmured, running her finger down the list of ingredients. “Well, they’re easy enough, they’re in the student store-cupboard, we can help ourselves. . . . Oooh, look, powdered horn of a bicorn — don’t know where we’re going to get that — shredded skin of a boomslang — that’ll be tricky, too — and of course a bit of whoever we want to change into."
"Excuse me?” said Ron sharply. “What d’you mean, a bit of whoever we’re changing into? I’m drinking nothing with Crabbe’s toenails in it —"
"We don’t have to worry about that yet, though, because we add those bits last. . . ."
"D’you realize how much we’re going to have to steal, Hermione? Shredded skin of a boomslang, that’s definitely not in the students’ cupboard. What’re we going to do, break into Snape’s private stores? I don’t know if this is a good idea. . . ."
"Well, if you two are going to chicken out, fine,” she said. There were bright pink patches on her cheeks and her eyes were brighter than usual. “I don’t want to break rules, you know. I think threatening Muggle-borns is far worse than brewing up a difficult potion. But if you don’t want to find out if it’s Malfoy, I’ll go straight to Madam Pince now and hand the book back in —"
"I never thought I’d see the day when you’d be persuading us to break rules,” said Ron. “All right, we’ll do it. But not toenails, okay?"
"How long will it take to make, anyway?"
"Well, since the fluxweed has got to be picked at the full moon and the lacewings have got to be stewed for twenty-one days . . . I’d say it’d be ready in about a month, if we can get all the ingredients."
"A month?” said Ron. “Malfoy could have attacked half the Muggle-borns in the school by then!” But Hermione’s eyes narrowed dangerously again, and he added swiftly, “But it’s the best plan we’ve got, so full steam ahead, I say."
"It’ll be a lot less hassle if you can just knock Malfoy off his broom tomorrow."
"Slytherin has better brooms than us,” he began. “No point denying it. But we’ve got better people on our brooms. We’ve trained harder than they have, we’ve been flying in all weathers —” (“Too true,” muttered George Weasley. “I haven’t been properly dry since August”) “— and we’re going to make them rue the day they let that little bit of slime, Malfoy, buy his way onto their team."
"It’ll be down to you, Harry, to show them that a Seeker has to have something more than a rich father. Get to that Snitch before Malfoy or die trying, Harry, because we’ve got to win today, we’ve got to."
"So no pressure, Harry,"
"On my whistle,” said Madam Hooch. “Three . . . two . . . one . . ."
"All right there, Scarhead?"
"Close one, Harry!"
"Gotcha!"
"Slytherin lead, sixty points to zero —"
"Someone’s — tampered — with — this — Bludger —"
"We need time out,"
"What’s going on?” said Wood as the Gryffindor team huddled together, while Slytherins in the crowd jeered. “We’re being flattened. Fred, George, where were you when that Bludger stopped Angelina scoring?"
"We were twenty feet above her, stopping the other Bludger from murdering Harry, Oliver,” said George angrily. “Someone’s fixed it — it won’t leave Harry alone. It hasn’t gone for anyone else all game. The Slytherins must have done something to it."
"But the Bludgers have been locked in Madam Hooch’s office since our last practice, and there was nothing wrong with them then. . . ."
"Listen,” said Harry as she came nearer and nearer, “with you two flying around me all the time the only way I’m going to catch the Snitch is if it flies up my sleeve. Go back to the rest of the team and let me deal with the rogue one."
"Don’t be thick,” said Fred. “It’ll take your head off."
"Oliver, this is insane,” said Alicia Spinnet angrily. “You can’t let Harry deal with that thing on his own. Let’s ask for an inquiry —"
"If we stop now, we’ll have to forfeit the match!” said Harry. “And we’re not losing to Slytherin just because of a crazy Bludger! Come on, Oliver, tell them to leave me alone!"
"This is all your fault,” George said angrily to Wood. “‘Get the Snitch or die trying,’ what a stupid thing to tell him —"
"Ready to resume play?"
"All right,” he said. “Fred, George, you heard Harry — leave him alone and let him deal with the Bludger on his own."
"Training for the ballet, Potter?"
"What the —"
"Aha,” he said vaguely. “We’ve won."
"Oh, no, not you,"
"Doesn’t know what he’s saying,” said Lockhart loudly to the anxious crowd of Gryffindors pressing around them. “Not to worry, Harry. I’m about to fix your arm."
"No!” said Harry. “I’ll keep it like this, thanks. . . ."
"I don’t want a photo of this, Colin,"
"Lie back, Harry,” said Lockhart soothingly. “It’s a simple charm I’ve used countless times —"
"Why can’t I just go to the hospital wing?"
"He should really, Professor,” said a muddy Wood, who couldn’t help grinning even though his Seeker was injured. “Great capture, Harry, really spectacular, your best yet, I’d say —"
"Stand back,"
"No — don’t —"
"Ah,” said Lockhart. “Yes. Well, that can sometimes happen. But the point is, the bones are no longer broken. That’s the thing to bear in mind. So, Harry, just toddle up to the hospital wing — ah, Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger, would you escort him? — and Madam Pomfrey will be able to — er — tidy you up a bit."
"You should have come straight to me!” she raged, holding up the sad, limp remainder of what, half an hour before, had been a working arm. “I can mend bones in a second — but growing them back —"
"You will be able to, won’t you?"
"I’ll be able to, certainly, but it will be painful,” said Madam Pomfrey grimly, throwing Harry a pair of pajamas. “You’ll have to stay the night. . . ."
"How can you stick up for Lockhart now, Hermione, eh?” Ron called through the curtain as he pulled Harry’s limp fingers through the cuff. “If Harry had wanted deboning he would have asked."
"Anyone can make a mistake,” said Hermione. “And it doesn’t hurt anymore, does it, Harry?"
"No,” said Harry, getting into bed. “But it doesn’t do anything else either."
"You’re in for a rough night,” she said, pouring out a steaming beakerful and handing it to him. “Regrowing bones is a nasty business."
"We won, though,” said Ron, a grin breaking across his face. “That was some catch you made. Malfoy’s face . . . he looked ready to kill. . . ."
"I want to know how he fixed that Bludger,"
"We can add that to the list of questions we’ll ask him when we’ve taken the Polyjuice Potion,” said Harry, sinking back onto his pillows. “I hope it tastes better than this stuff. . . ."
"If it’s got bits of Slytherins in it? You’ve got to be joking,"
"Unbelievable flying, Harry,” said George. “I’ve just seen Marcus Flint yelling at Malfoy. Something about having the Snitch on top of his head and not noticing. Malfoy didn’t seem too happy."
"This boy needs rest, he’s got thirty-three bones to regrow! Out! OUT!"
"Get off!” he said loudly, and then, “Dobby!"
"Harry Potter came back to school,” he whispered miserably. “Dobby warned and warned Harry Potter. Ah sir, why didn’t you heed Dobby? Why didn’t Harry Potter go back home when he missed the train?"
"What’re you doing here?” he said. “And how did you know I missed the train?"
"It was you!” he said slowly. “You stopped the barrier from letting us through!"
"Indeed yes, sir,” said Dobby, nodding his head vigorously, ears flapping. “Dobby hid and watched for Harry Potter and sealed the gateway and Dobby had to iron his hands afterward” — he showed Harry ten long, bandaged fingers — “but Dobby didn’t care, sir, for he thought Harry Potter was safe, and never did Dobby dream that Harry Potter would get to school another way!"
"Dobby was so shocked when he heard Harry Potter was back at Hogwarts, he let his master’s dinner burn! Such a flogging Dobby never had, sir. . . ."
"You nearly got Ron and me expelled,” he said fiercely. “You’d better get lost before my bones come back, Dobby, or I might strangle you."
"Dobby is used to death threats, sir. Dobby gets them five times a day at home."
"Why d’you wear that thing, Dobby?"
"This, sir?” said Dobby, plucking at the pillowcase. “’Tis a mark of the house-elf’s enslavement, sir. Dobby can only be freed if his masters present him with clothes, sir. The family is careful not to pass Dobby even a sock, sir, for then he would be free to leave their house forever."
"Harry Potter must go home! Dobby thought his Bludger would be enough to make —"
"Your Bludger?” said Harry, anger rising once more. “What d’you mean, your Bludger? You made that Bludger try and kill me?"
"Not kill you, sir, never kill you!” said Dobby, shocked. “Dobby wants to save Harry Potter’s life! Better sent home, grievously injured, than remain here, sir! Dobby only wanted Harry Potter hurt enough to be sent home!"
"Oh, is that all?” said Harry angrily. “I don’t suppose you’re going to tell me why you wanted me sent home in pieces?"
"Ah, if Harry Potter only knew!” Dobby groaned, more tears dripping onto his ragged pillowcase. “If he knew what he means to us, to the lowly, the enslaved, we dregs of the magical world! Dobby remembers how it was when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named was at the height of his powers, sir! We house-elves were treated like vermin, sir! Of course, Dobby is still treated like that, sir,” he admitted, drying his face on the pillowcase. “But mostly, sir, life has improved for my kind since you triumphed over He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. Harry Potter survived, and the Dark Lord’s power was broken, and it was a new dawn, sir, and Harry Potter shone like a beacon of hope for those of us who thought the dark days would never end, sir. . . . And now, at Hogwarts, terrible things are to happen, are perhaps happening already, and Dobby cannot let Harry Potter stay here now that history is to repeat itself, now that the Chamber of Secrets is open once more —"
"Bad Dobby, very bad Dobby . . ."
"So there is a Chamber of Secrets?” Harry whispered. “And — did you say it’s been opened before? Tell me, Dobby!"
"But I’m not Muggle-born — how can I be in danger from the Chamber?"
"Ah, sir, ask no more, ask no more of poor Dobby,” stammered the elf, his eyes huge in the dark. “Dark deeds are planned in this place, but Harry Potter must not be here when they happen — go home, Harry Potter, go home. Harry Potter must not meddle in this, sir, ’tis too dangerous —"
"Who is it, Dobby?” Harry said, keeping a firm hold on Dobby’s wrist to stop him from hitting himself with the water jug again. “Who’s opened it? Who opened it last time?"
"Dobby can’t, sir, Dobby can’t, Dobby mustn’t tell!” squealed the elf. “Go home, Harry Potter, go home!"
"I’m not going anywhere!” said Harry fiercely. “One of my best friends is Muggle-born; she’ll be first in line if the Chamber really has been opened —"
"Harry Potter risks his own life for his friends!” moaned Dobby in a kind of miserable ecstasy. “So noble! So valiant! But he must save himself, he must, Harry Potter must not —"
"Dobby must go!"
"Get Madam Pomfrey,"
"What happened?"
"Another attack,” said Dumbledore. “Minerva found him on the stairs."
"There was a bunch of grapes next to him,” said Professor McGonagall. “We think he was trying to sneak up here to visit Potter."
"Petrified?"
"Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “But I shudder to think . . . If Albus hadn’t been on the way downstairs for hot chocolate — who knows what might have —"
"You don’t think he managed to get a picture of his attacker?"
"Good gracious!"
"Melted,” said Madam Pomfrey wonderingly. “All melted . . ."
"What does this mean, Albus?"
"It means,” said Dumbledore, “that the Chamber of Secrets is indeed open again."
"But, Albus . . . surely . . . who?"
"The question is not who,” said Dumbledore, his eyes on Colin. “The question is, how. . . ."
"All in order,” she said as he clumsily fed himself porridge left-handed. “When you’ve finished eating, you may leave."
"Oh, hello, Harry,” he said. “Excellent flying yesterday, really excellent. Gryffindor has just taken the lead for the House Cup — you earned fifty points!"
"You haven’t seen Ron or Hermione, have you?"
"No, I haven’t,” said Percy, his smile fading. “I hope Ron’s not in another girls’ toilet. . . ."
"It’s me,"
"Harry!” she said. “You gave us such a fright — come in — how’s your arm?"
"Fine,"
"We’d’ve come to meet you, but we decided to get started on the Polyjuice Potion,” Ron explained as Harry, with difficulty, locked the stall again. “We’ve decided this is the safest place to hide it."
"We already know — we heard Professor McGonagall telling Professor Flitwick this morning. That’s why we decided we’d better get going —"
"The sooner we get a confession out of Malfoy, the better,” snarled Ron. “D’you know what I think? He was in such a foul temper after the Quidditch match, he took it out on Colin."
"There’s something else,” said Harry, watching Hermione tearing bundles of knotgrass and throwing them into the potion. “Dobby came to visit me in the middle of the night."
"The Chamber of Secrets has been opened before?"
"This settles it,” said Ron in a triumphant voice. “Lucius Malfoy must’ve opened the Chamber when he was at school here and now he’s told dear old Draco how to do it. It’s obvious. Wish Dobby’d told you what kind of monster’s in there, though. I want to know how come nobody’s noticed it sneaking around the school."
"Maybe it can make itself invisible,” said Hermione, prodding leeches to the bottom of the cauldron. “Or maybe it can disguise itself — pretend to be a suit of armor or something — I’ve read about Chameleon Ghouls —"
"You read too much, Hermione,"
"So Dobby stopped us from getting on the train and broke your arm. . . .” He shook his head. “You know what, Harry? If he doesn’t stop trying to save your life he’s going to kill you."
"They went for Filch first,” Neville said, his round face fearful. “And everyone knows I’m almost a Squib."
"What we need,” said Hermione briskly as Thursday afternoon’s double Potions lesson loomed nearer, “is a diversion. Then one of us can sneak into Snape’s office and take what we need."
"I think I’d better do the actual stealing,” Hermione continued in a matter-of-fact tone. “You two will be expelled if you get into any more trouble, and I’ve got a clean record. So all you need to do is cause enough mayhem to keep Snape busy for five minutes or so."
"Unfair."
"Silence! SILENCE!” Snape roared. “Anyone who has been splashed, come here for a Deflating Draught — when I find out who did this —"
"If I ever find out who threw this,” Snape whispered, “I shall make sure that person is expelled."
"He knew it was me,” Harry told Ron and Hermione as they hurried back to Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. “I could tell."
"It’ll be ready in two weeks,"
"Snape can’t prove it was you,” said Ron reassuringly to Harry. “What can he do?"
"Knowing Snape, something foul,"
"They’re starting a Dueling Club!” said Seamus. “First meeting tonight! I wouldn’t mind dueling lessons; they might come in handy one of these days. . . ."
"What, you reckon Slytherin’s monster can duel?"
"Could be useful,” he said to Harry and Hermione as they went into dinner. “Shall we go?"
"I wonder who’ll be teaching us?” said Hermione as they edged into the chattering crowd. “Someone told me Flitwick was a dueling champion when he was young — maybe it’ll be him."
"As long as it’s not —"
"Let me introduce my assistant, Professor Snape,” said Lockhart, flashing a wide smile. “He tells me he knows a tiny little bit about dueling himself and has sportingly agreed to help me with a short demonstration before we begin. Now, I don’t want any of you youngsters to worry — you’ll still have your Potions master when I’m through with him, never fear!"
"Wouldn’t it be good if they finished each other off?"
"As you see, we are holding our wands in the accepted combative position,” Lockhart told the silent crowd. “On the count of three, we will cast our first spells. Neither of us will be aiming to kill, of course."
"I wouldn’t bet on that,"
"One — two — three —"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Do you think he’s all right?"
"Who cares?"
"Well, there you have it!” he said, tottering back onto the platform. “That was a Disarming Charm — as you see, I’ve lost my wand — ah, thank you, Miss Brown — yes, an excellent idea to show them that, Professor Snape, but if you don’t mind my saying so, it was very obvious what you were about to do. If I had wanted to stop you it would have been only too easy — however, I felt it would be instructive to let them see . . ."
"Enough demonstrating! I’m going to come amongst you now and put you all into pairs. Professor Snape, if you’d like to help me —"
"Time to split up the dream team, I think,” he sneered. “Weasley, you can partner Finnigan. Potter —"
"I don’t think so,” said Snape, smiling coldly. “Mr. Malfoy, come over here. Let’s see what you make of the famous Potter. And you, Miss Granger — you can partner Miss Bulstrode."
"Face your partners!” called Lockhart, back on the platform. “And bow!"
"Wands at the ready!” shouted Lockhart. “When I count to three, cast your charms to Disarm your opponents — only to disarm them — we don’t want any accidents — one . . . two . . . three —"
"two”: His spell hit Harry so hard he felt as though he’d been hit over the head with a saucepan. He stumbled, but everything still seemed to be working, and wasting no more time, Harry pointed his wand straight at Malfoy and shouted, “Rictusempra!"
"I said Disarm only!” Lockhart shouted in alarm over the heads of the battling crowd, as Malfoy sank to his knees; Harry had hit him with a Tickling Charm, and he could barely move for laughing. Harry hung back, with a vague feeling it would be unsporting to bewitch Malfoy while he was on the floor, but this was a mistake; gasping for breath, Malfoy pointed his wand at Harry’s knees, choked, “Tarantallegra!"
"Stop! Stop!"
"Finite Incantatem!"
"Dear, dear,"
"I think I’d better teach you how to block unfriendly spells,” said Lockhart, standing flustered in the midst of the hall. He glanced at Snape, whose black eyes glinted, and looked quickly away. “Let’s have a volunteer pair — Longbottom and Finch-Fletchley, how about you —"
"A bad idea, Professor Lockhart,” said Snape, gliding over like a large and malevolent bat. “Longbottom causes devastation with the simplest spells. We’ll be sending what’s left of Finch-Fletchley up to the hospital wing in a matchbox.” Neville’s round, pink face went pinker. “How about Malfoy and Potter?"
"Excellent idea!"
"Now, Harry,” said Lockhart. “When Draco points his wand at you, you do this."
"Whoops — my wand is a little overexcited —"
"Professor, could you show me that blocking thing again?"
"Scared?"
"You wish,"
"Just do what I did, Harry!"
"What, drop my wand?"
"Three — two — one — go!"
"Serpensortia!"
"Don’t move, Potter,” said Snape lazily, clearly enjoying the sight of Harry standing motionless, eye to eye with the angry snake. “I’ll get rid of it. . . ."
"Allow me!"
"Leave him alone!"
"What do you think you’re playing at?"
"Come on,” said Ron’s voice in his ear. “Move — come on —"
"You’re a Parselmouth. Why didn’t you tell us?"
"I’m a what?"
"A Parselmouth!” said Ron. “You can talk to snakes!"
"I know,” said Harry. “I mean, that’s only the second time I’ve ever done it. I accidentally set a boa constrictor on my cousin Dudley at the zoo once — long story — but it was telling me it had never seen Brazil and I sort of set it free without meaning to — that was before I knew I was a wizard —"
"A boa constrictor told you it had never seen Brazil?"
"So?” said Harry. “I bet loads of people here can do it."
"Oh, no they can’t,” said Ron. “It’s not a very common gift. Harry, this is bad."
"What’s bad?” said Harry, starting to feel quite angry. “What’s wrong with everyone? Listen, if I hadn’t told that snake not to attack Justin —"
"Oh, that’s what you said to it?"
"What d’you mean? You were there — you heard me —"
"I heard you speaking Parseltongue,” said Ron. “Snake language. You could have been saying anything — no wonder Justin panicked, you sounded like you were egging the snake on or something — it was creepy, you know —"
"I spoke a different language? But — I didn’t realize — how can I speak a language without knowing I can speak it?"
"D’you want to tell me what’s wrong with stopping a massive snake biting off Justin’s head?” he said. “What does it matter how I did it as long as Justin doesn’t have to join the Headless Hunt?"
"It matters,” said Hermione, speaking at last in a hushed voice, “because being able to talk to snakes was what Salazar Slytherin was famous for. That’s why the symbol of Slytherin House is a serpent."
"Exactly,” said Ron. “And now the whole school’s going to think you’re his great-great-great-great-grandson or something —"
"But I’m not,"
"You’ll find that hard to prove,” said Hermione. “He lived about a thousand years ago; for all we know, you could be."
"For heaven’s sake, Harry,” said Hermione, exasperated, as one of Ron’s bishops wrestled her knight off his horse and dragged him off the board. “Go and find Justin if it’s so important to you."
"So anyway,” a stout boy was saying, “I told Justin to hide up in our dormitory. I mean to say, if Potter’s marked him down as his next victim, it’s best if he keeps a low profile for a while. Of course, Justin’s been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born. Justin actually told him he’d been down for Eton. That’s not the kind of thing you bandy about with Slytherin’s heir on the loose, is it?"
"You definitely think it is Potter, then, Ernie?"
"Hannah,” said the stout boy solemnly, “he’s a Parselmouth. Everyone knows that’s the mark of a Dark wizard. Have you ever heard of a decent one who could talk to snakes? They called Slytherin himself Serpent-tongue."
"Remember what was written on the wall? Enemies of the Heir, Beware. Potter had some sort of run-in with Filch. Next thing we know, Filch’s cat’s attacked. That first year, Creevey, was annoying Potter at the Quidditch match, taking pictures of him while he was lying in the mud. Next thing we know — Creevey’s been attacked."
"He always seems so nice, though,” said Hannah uncertainly, “and, well, he’s the one who made You-Know-Who disappear. He can’t be all bad, can he?"
"No one knows how he survived that attack by You-Know-Who. I mean to say, he was only a baby when it happened. He should have been blasted into smithereens. Only a really powerful Dark wizard could have survived a curse like that.” He dropped his voice until it was barely more than a whisper, and said, “That’s probably why You-Know-Who wanted to kill him in the first place. Didn’t want another Dark Lord competing with him. I wonder what other powers Potter’s been hiding?"
"Hello,” said Harry. “I’m looking for Justin Finch-Fletchley."
"What do you want with him?"
"I wanted to tell him what really happened with that snake at the Dueling Club,"
"We were all there. We saw what happened."
"Then you noticed that after I spoke to it, the snake backed off?"
"All I saw,” said Ernie stubbornly, though he was trembling as he spoke, “was you speaking Parseltongue and chasing the snake toward Justin."
"I didn’t chase it at him!” Harry said, his voice shaking with anger. “It didn’t even touch him!"
"It was a very near miss,” said Ernie. “And in case you’re getting ideas,” he added hastily, “I might tell you that you can trace my family back through nine generations of witches and warlocks and my blood’s as pure as anyone’s, so —"
"I don’t care what sort of blood you’ve got!” said Harry fiercely. “Why would I want to attack Muggle-borns?"
"I’ve heard you hate those Muggles you live with,"
"It’s not possible to live with the Dursleys and not hate them,” said Harry. “I’d like to see you try it."
"Oh, hello, Hagrid,"
"All righ’, Harry?” he said, pulling up the balaclava so he could speak. “Why aren’t yeh in class?"
"Canceled,” said Harry, getting up. “What’re you doing in here?"
"Second one killed this term,” he explained. “It’s either foxes or a Blood-Suckin’ Bugbear, an’ I need the headmaster’s permission ter put a charm around the hen coop."
"Yeh sure yeh’re all righ’? Yeh look all hot an’ bothered —"
"It’s nothing,” he said. “I’d better get going, Hagrid, it’s Transfiguration next and I’ve got to pick up my books."
"Justin’s been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born. . . ."
"Why, it’s potty wee Potter!” cackled Peeves, knocking Harry’s glasses askew as he bounced past him. “What’s Potter up to? Why’s Potter lurking —"
"ATTACK! ATTACK! ANOTHER ATTACK! NO MORTAL OR GHOST IS SAFE! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! ATTAAAACK!"
"Caught in the act!"
"That will do, Macmillan!"
"That’s enough, Peeves!"
"This way, Potter,"
"Professor,” said Harry at once, “I swear I didn’t —"
"This is out of my hands, Potter,"
"Lemon drop!"
"Bee in your bonnet, Harry Potter?"
"Er, yes,” Harry muttered. “Er — sorry to bother you — I wanted to ask —"
"You’ve been wondering whether I put you in the right House,” said the hat smartly. “Yes . . . you were particularly difficult to place. But I stand by what I said before” — Harry’s heart leapt — “you would have done well in Slytherin —"
"You’re wrong,"
"Professor,” Harry gasped. “Your bird — I couldn’t do anything — he just caught fire —"
"About time, too,” he said. “He’s been looking dreadful for days; I’ve been telling him to get a move on."
"Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry. Phoenixes burst into flame when it is time for them to die and are reborn from the ashes. Watch him . . ."
"It’s a shame you had to see him on a Burning Day,” said Dumbledore, seating himself behind his desk. “He’s really very handsome most of the time, wonderful red and gold plumage. Fascinating creatures, phoenixes. They can carry immensely heavy loads, their tears have healing powers, and they make highly faithful pets."
"It wasn’ Harry, Professor Dumbledore!” said Hagrid urgently. “I was talkin’ ter him seconds before that kid was found, he never had time, sir —"
"— it can’t’ve bin him, I’ll swear it in front o’ the Ministry o’ Magic if I have to —"
"Hagrid, I —"
"— yeh’ve got the wrong boy, sir, I know Harry never —"
"Hagrid!” said Dumbledore loudly. “I do not think that Harry attacked those people."
"Oh,” said Hagrid, the rooster falling limply at his side. “Right. I’ll wait outside then, Headmaster."
"You don’t think it was me, Professor?"
"No, Harry, I don’t,” said Dumbledore, though his face was somber again. “But I still want to talk to you."
"I must ask you, Harry, whether there is anything you’d like to tell me,” he said gently. “Anything at all."
"You’ll be next, Mudbloods!” and of the Polyjuice Potion simmering away in Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. Then he thought of the disembodied voice he had heard twice and remembered what Ron had said: “Hearing voices no one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the Wizarding world."
"No,” said Harry. “There isn’t anything, Professor. . . ."
"At this rate, we’ll be the only ones left,” Ron told Harry and Hermione. “Us, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. What a jolly holiday it’s going to be."
"Make way for the Heir of Slytherin, seriously evil wizard coming through. . . ."
"It is not a laughing matter,"
"Oh, get out of the way, Percy,” said Fred. “Harry’s in a hurry."
"Yeah, he’s off to the Chamber of Secrets for a cup of tea with his fanged servant,"
"Oh, don’t,"
"It’s because he’s bursting to say it’s really him,” said Ron knowingly. “You know how he hates anyone beating him at anything, and you’re getting all the credit for his dirty work."
"Not for long,” said Hermione in a satisfied tone. “The Polyjuice Potion’s nearly ready. We’ll be getting the truth out of him any day now."
"Wake up,"
"Hermione — you’re not supposed to be in here —"
"Merry Christmas to you, too,” said Hermione, throwing him his present. “I’ve been up for nearly an hour, adding more lacewings to the potion. It’s ready."
"Are you sure?"
"Positive,” said Hermione, shifting Scabbers the rat so that she could sit down on the end of Ron’s four-poster. “If we’re going to do it, I say it should be tonight."
"Hello,” said Harry happily as she landed on his bed. “Are you speaking to me again?"
"Pinhead,"
"We still need a bit of the people you’re changing into,"
"I’ve got it all worked out,” she went on smoothly, ignoring Harry’s and Ron’s stupefied faces. She held up two plump chocolate cakes. “I’ve filled these with a simple Sleeping Draught. All you have to do is make sure Crabbe and Goyle find them. You know how greedy they are, they’re bound to eat them. Once they’re asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and hide them in a broom closet."
"Hermione, I don’t think —"
"That could go seriously wrong —"
"The potion will be useless without Crabbe’s and Goyle’s hair,” she said sternly. “You do want to investigate Malfoy, don’t you?"
"Oh, all right, all right,” said Harry. “But what about you? Whose hair are you ripping out?"
"I’ve already got mine!” said Hermione brightly, pulling a tiny bottle out of her pocket and showing them the single hair inside it. “Remember Millicent Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Dueling Club? She left this on my robes when she was trying to strangle me! And she’s gone home for Christmas — so I’ll just have to tell the Slytherins I’ve decided to come back."
"Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go wrong?"
"How thick can you get?"
"Hermione?"
"Did you get them?"
"Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the laundry,” Hermione said, holding up a small sack. “You’ll need bigger sizes once you’re Crabbe and Goyle."
"I’m sure I’ve done everything right,” said Hermione, nervously rereading the splotched page of Moste Potente Potions. “It looks like the book says it should . . . once we’ve drunk it, we’ll have exactly an hour before we change back into ourselves."
"Now what?"
"We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs."
"Urgh — essence of Millicent Bulstrode,” said Ron, eyeing it with loathing. “Bet it tastes disgusting."
"Add yours, then,"
"Hang on,” said Harry as Ron and Hermione reached for their glasses. “We’d better not all drink them in here. . . . Once we turn into Crabbe and Goyle we won’t fit. And Millicent Bulstrode’s no pixie."
"Good thinking,” said Ron, unlocking the door. “We’ll take separate stalls."
"Ready?"
"Ready,"
"One — two — three —"
"Are you two okay?"
"Yeah,"
"This is unbelievable,” said Ron, approaching the mirror and prodding Crabbe’s flat nose. “Unbelievable."
"We’d better get going,” said Harry, loosening the watch that was cutting into Goyle’s thick wrist. “We’ve still got to find out where the Slytherin common room is. I only hope we can find someone to follow . . ."
"You don’t know how bizarre it is to see Goyle thinking.” He banged on Hermione’s door. “C’mon, we need to go —"
"I — I don’t think I’m going to come after all. You go on without me."
"Hermione, we know Millicent Bulstrode’s ugly, no one’s going to know it’s you —"
"No — really — I don’t think I’ll come. You two hurry up, you’re wasting time —"
"That looks more like Goyle,” said Ron. “That’s how he looks every time a teacher asks him a question."
"Hermione, are you okay?"
"Fine — I’m fine — go on —"
"We’ll meet you back here, all right?"
"Don’t swing your arms like that,"
"Eh?"
"Crabbe holds them sort of stiff. . . ."
"How’s this?"
"Yeah, that’s better. . . ."
"Any ideas?"
"The Slytherins always come up to breakfast from over there,"
"Excuse me,” said Ron, hurrying up to her. “We’ve forgotten the way to our common room."
"I beg your pardon?” said the girl stiffly. “Our common room? I’m a Ravenclaw."
"Ha!” said Ron excitedly. “There’s one of them now!"
"What’re you doing down here?"
"That,” he said stiffly, “is none of your business. It’s Crabbe, isn’t it?"
"Wh — oh, yeah,"
"Well, get off to your dormitories,” said Percy sternly. “It’s not safe to go wandering around dark corridors these days."
"You are,"
"I,” said Percy, drawing himself up, “am a prefect. Nothing’s about to attack me."
"There you are,” he drawled, looking at them. “Have you two been pigging out in the Great Hall all this time? I’ve been looking for you; I want to show you something really funny."
"And what’re you doing down here, Weasley?"
"You want to show a bit more respect to a school prefect!” he said. “I don’t like your attitude!"
"That Peter Weasley —"
"Percy,"
"Whatever,” said Malfoy. “I’ve noticed him sneaking around a lot lately. And I bet I know what he’s up to. He thinks he’s going to catch Slytherin’s heir single-handed."
"What’s the new password again?"
"Er —"
"Oh, yeah — pure-blood!"
"Wait here,” said Malfoy to Harry and Ron, motioning them to a pair of empty chairs set back from the fire. “I’ll go and get it — my father’s just sent it to me —"
"That’ll give you a laugh,"
"Weasley has brought the Ministry into disrepute,” Mr. Malfoy told our reporter. “He is clearly unfit to draw up our laws and his ridiculous Muggle Protection Act should be scrapped immediately."
"Well?” said Malfoy impatiently as Harry handed the clipping back to him. “Don’t you think it’s funny?"
"Ha, ha,"
"Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much he should snap his wand in half and go and join them,” said Malfoy scornfully. “You’d never know the Weasleys were purebloods, the way they behave."
"What’s up with you, Crabbe?"
"Stomachache,"
"Well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those Mudbloods a kick from me,” said Malfoy, snickering. “You know, I’m surprised the Daily Prophet hasn’t reported all these attacks yet,” he went on thoughtfully. “I suppose Dumbledore’s trying to hush it all up. He’ll be sacked if it doesn’t stop soon. Father’s always said old Dumbledore’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to this place. He loves Muggle-borns. A decent headmaster would never’ve let slime like that Creevey in."
"‘Potter, can I have your picture, Potter? Can I have your autograph? Can I lick your shoes, please, Potter?’"
"What’s the matter with you two?"
"Saint Potter, the Mudbloods’ friend,” said Malfoy slowly. “He’s another one with no proper wizard feeling, or he wouldn’t go around with that jumped-up Granger Mudblood. And people think he’s Slytherin’s heir!"
"I wish I knew who it is,” said Malfoy petulantly. “I could help them."
"You must have some idea who’s behind it all. . . ."
"You know I haven’t, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell you?” snapped Malfoy. “And Father won’t tell me anything about the last time the Chamber was opened either. Of course, it was fifty years ago, so it was before his time, but he knows all about it, and he says that it was all kept quiet and it’ll look suspicious if I know too much about it. But I know one thing — last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened, a Mudblood died. So I bet it’s a matter of time before one of them’s killed this time. . . . I hope it’s Granger,"
"D’you know if the person who opened the Chamber last time was caught?"
"Oh, yeah . . . whoever it was was expelled,” said Malfoy. “They’re probably still in Azkaban."
"Azkaban?"
"Azkaban — the wizard prison, Goyle,” said Malfoy, looking at him in disbelief. “Honestly, if you were any slower, you’d be going backward."
"Father says to keep my head down and let the Heir of Slytherin get on with it. He says the school needs ridding of all the Mudblood filth, but not to get mixed up in it. Of course, he’s got a lot on his plate at the moment. You know the Ministry of Magic raided our manor last week?"
"Yeah . . .” said Malfoy. “Luckily, they didn’t find much. Father’s got some very valuable Dark Arts stuff. But luckily, we’ve got our own secret chamber under the drawing-room floor —"
"Ho!"
"Medicine for my stomach,"
"Well, it wasn’t a complete waste of time,” Ron panted, closing the bathroom door behind them. “I know we still haven’t found out who’s doing the attacks, but I’m going to write to Dad tomorrow and tell him to check under the Malfoys’ drawing room."
"Hermione, come out, we’ve got loads to tell you —"
"Go away!"
"What’s the matter?” said Ron. “You must be back to normal by now, we are —"
"Ooooooh, wait till you see,” she said. “It’s awful —"
"What’s up?” said Ron uncertainly. “Have you still got Millicent’s nose or something?"
"It was a c-cat hair!” she howled. “M-Millicent Bulstrode m-must have a cat! And the p-potion isn’t supposed to be used for animal transformations!"
"Uh-oh,"
"You’ll be teased something dreadful,"
"It’s okay, Hermione,” said Harry quickly. “We’ll take you up to the hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey never asks too many questions. . . ."
"Wait till everyone finds out you’ve got a tail!"
"If I’d sprouted whiskers, I’d take a break from work,"
"Don’t be silly, Ron, I’ve got to keep up,” said Hermione briskly. Her spirits were greatly improved by the fact that all the hair had gone from her face and her eyes were turning slowly back to brown. “I don’t suppose you’ve got any new leads?"
"Nothing,"
"I was so sure it was Malfoy,"
"What’s that?"
"Just a get well card,"
"To Miss Granger, wishing you a speedy recovery, from your concerned teacher, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner of Witch Weekly’s Most-Charming-Smile Award."
"You sleep with this under your pillow?"
"Is Lockhart the smarmiest bloke you’ve ever met, or what?"
"That’s Filch,"
"You don’t think someone else’s been attacked?"
"— even more work for me! Mopping all night, like I haven’t got enough to do! No, this is the final straw, I’m going to Dumbledore —"
"Now what’s up with her?"
"Let’s go and see,"
"What’s up, Myrtle?"
"Who’s that?” glugged Myrtle miserably. “Come to throw something else at me?"
"Why would I throw something at you?"
"Don’t ask me,” Myrtle shouted, emerging with a wave of yet more water, which splashed onto the already sopping floor. “Here I am, minding my own business, and someone thinks it’s funny to throw a book at me. . . ."
"But it can’t hurt you if someone throws something at you,” said Harry, reasonably. “I mean, it’d just go right through you, wouldn’t it?"
"Let’s all throw books at Myrtle, because she can’t feel it! Ten points if you can get it through her stomach! Fifty points if it goes through her head! Well, ha, ha, ha! What a lovely game, I don’t think!"
"Who threw it at you, anyway?"
"I don’t know. . . . I was just sitting in the U-bend, thinking about death, and it fell right through the top of my head,” said Myrtle, glaring at them. “It’s over there, it got washed out. . . ."
"What?"
"Are you crazy?” said Ron. “It could be dangerous."
"Dangerous?” said Harry, laughing. “Come off it, how could it be dangerous?"
"You’d be surprised,” said Ron, who was looking apprehensively at the book. “Some of the books the Ministry’s confiscated — Dad’s told me — there was one that burned your eyes out. And everyone who read Sonnets of a Sorcerer spoke in limericks for the rest of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a book that you could never stop reading! You just had to wander around with your nose in it, trying to do everything one-handed. And —"
"All right, I’ve got the point,"
"Well, we won’t find out unless we look at it,"
"T. M. Riddle"
"Hang on,” said Ron, who had approached cautiously and was looking over Harry’s shoulder. “I know that name. . . . T. M. Riddle got an award for special services to the school fifty years ago."
"How on earth d’you know that?"
"Because Filch made me polish his shield about fifty times in detention,” said Ron resentfully. “That was the one I burped slugs all over. If you’d wiped slime off a name for an hour, you’d remember it, too."
"He never wrote in it,"
"I wonder why someone wanted to flush it away?"
"He must’ve been Muggle-born,” said Harry thoughtfully. “To have bought a diary from Vauxhall Road. . . ."
"Well, it’s not much use to you,” said Ron. He dropped his voice. “Fifty points if you can get it through Myrtle’s nose."
"Oooh, it might have hidden powers,"
"If it has, it’s hiding them very well,” said Ron. “Maybe it’s shy. I don’t know why you don’t chuck it, Harry."
"I wish I knew why someone did try to chuck it,” said Harry. “I wouldn’t mind knowing how Riddle got an award for special services to Hogwarts either."
"Could’ve been anything,” said Ron. “Maybe he got thirty O.W.L.s or saved a teacher from the giant squid. Maybe he murdered Myrtle; that would’ve done everyone a favor. . . ."
"What?"
"Well, the Chamber of Secrets was opened fifty years ago, wasn’t it?” he said. “That’s what Malfoy said."
"Yeah . . ."
"And this diary is fifty years old,"
"So?"
"Oh, Ron, wake up,” snapped Hermione. “We know the person who opened the Chamber last time was expelled fifty years ago. We know T. M. Riddle got an award for special services to the school fifty years ago. Well, what if Riddle got his special award for catching the Heir of Slytherin? His diary would probably tell us everything — where the Chamber is, and how to open it, and what sort of creature lives in it — the person who’s behind the attacks this time wouldn’t want that lying around, would they?"
"That’s a brilliant theory, Hermione,” said Ron, “with just one tiny little flaw. There’s nothing written in his diary."
"It might be invisible ink!"
"Aparecium!"
"It’s a Revealer, I got it in Diagon Alley,"
"I’m telling you, there’s nothing to find in there,” said Ron. “Riddle just got a diary for Christmas and couldn’t be bothered filling it in."
"Good thing, too, or it’d be even bigger and I’d still be polishing it,"
"He sounds like Percy,” said Ron, wrinkling his nose in disgust. “Prefect, Head Boy . . . probably top of every class —"
"You say that like it’s a bad thing,"
"The moment their acne clears up, they’ll be ready for repotting again,” Harry heard her telling Filch kindly one afternoon. “And after that, it won’t be long until we’re cutting them up and stewing them. You’ll have Mrs. Norris back in no time."
"given himself away” at the Dueling Club. Peeves wasn’t helping matters; he kept popping up in the crowded corridors singing “Oh, Potter, you rotter . . ."
"I don’t think there’ll be any more trouble, Minerva,"
"You know, what the school needs now is a morale-booster. Wash away the memories of last term! I won’t say any more just now, but I think I know just the thing. . . ."
"What’s going on?"
"Happy Valentine’s Day!” Lockhart shouted. “And may I thank the forty-six people who have so far sent me cards! Yes, I have taken the liberty of arranging this little surprise for you all — and it doesn’t end here!"
"My friendly, card-carrying cupids!” beamed Lockhart. “They will be roving around the school today delivering your valentines! And the fun doesn’t stop here! I’m sure my colleagues will want to enter into the spirit of the occasion! Why not ask Professor Snape to show you how to whip up a Love Potion! And while you’re at it, Professor Flitwick knows more about Entrancing Enchantments than any wizard I’ve ever met, the sly old dog!"
"Please, Hermione, tell me you weren’t one of the forty-six,"
"Oi, you! ’Arry Potter!"
"I’ve got a musical message to deliver to ’Arry Potter in person,"
"Not here,"
"Stay still!"
"Let me go!"
"What’s going on here?"
"What’s all this commotion?"
"Right,"
"Off you go, off you go, the bell rang five minutes ago, off to class, now,” he said, shooing some of the younger students away. “And you, Malfoy —"
"Give that back,"
"Wonder what Potter’s written in this?"
"Hand it over, Malfoy,"
"When I’ve had a look,"
"As a school prefect —” but Harry had lost his temper. He pulled out his wand and shouted, “Expelliarmus!"
"Harry!” said Percy loudly. “No magic in the corridors. I’ll have to report this, you know!"
"I don’t think Potter liked your valentine much!"
"His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad"
"My name is Harry Potter."
"Hello, Harry Potter. My name is Tom Riddle. How did you come by my diary?"
"Someone tried to flush it down a toilet."
"Lucky that I recorded my memories in some more lasting way than ink. But I always knew that there would be those who would not want this diary read."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that this diary holds memories of terrible things. Things that were covered up. Things that happened at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry."
"That’s where I am now,” Harry wrote quickly. “I’m at Hogwarts, and horrible stuff’s been happening. Do you know anything about the Chamber of Secrets?"
"Of course I know about the Chamber of Secrets. In my day, they told us it was a legend, that it did not exist. But this was a lie. In my fifth year, the Chamber was opened and the monster attacked several students, finally killing one. I caught the person who’d opened the Chamber and he was expelled. But the headmaster, Professor Dippet, ashamed that such a thing had happened at Hogwarts, forbade me to tell the truth. A story was given out that the girl had died in a freak accident. They gave me a nice, shiny, engraved trophy for my trouble and warned me to keep my mouth shut. But I knew it could happen again. The monster lived on, and the one who had the power to release it was not imprisoned."
"It’s happening again now. There have been three attacks and no one seems to know who’s behind them. Who was it last time?"
"I can show you, if you like,” came Riddle’s reply. “You don’t have to take my word for it. I can take you inside my memory of the night when I caught him."
"Let me show you."
"OK."
"I’m sorry,” he said shakily. “I didn’t mean to butt in —"
"Er — I’ll just go, shall I?"
"Sorry I disturbed you. I’ll go now,"
"Enter,"
"Ah, Riddle,"
"You wanted to see me, Professor Dippet?"
"Sit down,” said Dippet. “I’ve just been reading the letter you sent me."
"Oh,"
"My dear boy,” said Dippet kindly, “I cannot possibly let you stay at school over the summer. Surely you want to go home for the holidays?"
"No,” said Riddle at once. “I’d much rather stay at Hogwarts than go back to that — to that —"
"You live in a Muggle orphanage during the holidays, I believe?"
"Yes, sir,"
"You are Muggle-born?"
"Half-blood, sir,” said Riddle. “Muggle father, witch mother."
"And are both your parents — ?"
"My mother died just after I was born, sir. They told me at the orphanage she lived just long enough to name me — Tom after my father, Marvolo after my grandfather."
"The thing is, Tom,” he sighed, “special arrangements might have been made for you, but in the current circumstances. . . ."
"You mean all these attacks, sir?"
"Precisely,” said the headmaster. “My dear boy, you must see how foolish it would be of me to allow you to remain at the castle when term ends. Particularly in light of the recent tragedy . . . the death of that poor little girl. . . . You will be safer by far at your orphanage. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of Magic is even now talking about closing the school. We are no nearer locating the — er — source of all this unpleasantness. . . ."
"Sir — if the person was caught — if it all stopped —"
"What do you mean?” said Dippet with a squeak in his voice, sitting up in his chair. “Riddle, do you mean you know something about these attacks?"
"No, sir,"
"no"
"You may go, Tom. . . ."
"What are you doing, wandering around this late, Tom?"
"I had to see the headmaster, sir,"
"Well, hurry off to bed,” said Dumbledore, giving Riddle exactly the kind of penetrating stare Harry knew so well. “Best not to roam the corridors these days. Not since . . ."
"C’mon . . . gotta get yeh outta here. . . . C’mon now . . . in the box . . ."
"Evening, Rubeus,"
"What yer doin’ down here, Tom?"
"It’s all over,” he said. “I’m going to have to turn you in, Rubeus. They’re talking about closing Hogwarts if the attacks don’t stop."
"What d’yeh —"
"I don’t think you meant to kill anyone. But monsters don’t make good pets. I suppose you just let it out for exercise and —"
"It never killed no one!"
"Come on, Rubeus,” said Riddle, moving yet closer. “The dead girl’s parents will be here tomorrow. The least Hogwarts can do is make sure that the thing that killed their daughter is slaughtered. . . ."
"It wasn’t him!” roared the boy, his voice echoing in the dark passage. “He wouldn’! He never!"
"Stand aside,"
"NOOOOOOO!"
"There you are,"
"What’s up?"
"It was Hagrid, Ron. Hagrid opened the Chamber of Secrets fifty years ago."
"Fluffy."
"Riddle might have got the wrong person,” said Hermione. “Maybe it was some other monster that was attacking people. . . ."
"How many monsters d’you think this place can hold?"
"We always knew Hagrid had been expelled,” said Harry miserably. “And the attacks must’ve stopped after Hagrid was kicked out. Otherwise, Riddle wouldn’t have got his award."
"Riddle does sound like Percy — who asked him to squeal on Hagrid, anyway?"
"But the monster had killed someone, Ron,"
"And Riddle was going to go back to some Muggle orphanage if they closed Hogwarts,” said Harry. “I don’t blame him for wanting to stay here. . . ."
"You met Hagrid down Knockturn Alley, didn’t you, Harry?"
"He was buying a Flesh-Eating Slug Repellent,"
"Do you think we should go and ask Hagrid about it all?"
"That’d be a cheerful visit,” said Ron. “‘Hello, Hagrid. Tell us, have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose in the castle lately?’"
"Oh, Potter, you rotter"
"The moment they start trying to move into each other’s pots, we’ll know they’re fully mature,” she told Harry. “Then we’ll be able to revive those poor people in the hospital wing."
"It could affect our whole future,"
"I just want to give up Potions,"
"We can’t,” said Ron gloomily. “We keep all our old subjects, or I’d’ve ditched Defense Against the Dark Arts."
"But that’s very important!"
"Not the way Lockhart teaches it,” said Ron. “I haven’t learned anything from him except not to set pixies loose."
"Depends where you want to go, Harry,” he said. “It’s never too early to think about the future, so I’d recommend Divination. People say Muggle Studies is a soft option, but I personally think wizards should have a thorough understanding of the non-magical community, particularly if they’re thinking of working in close contact with them — look at my father, he has to deal with Muggle business all the time. My brother Charlie was always more of an outdoor type, so he went for Care of Magical Creatures. Play to your strengths, Harry."
"Harry — I don’t know who did it — I just found —"
"What happened, Harry?"
"No idea,"
"Someone’s been looking for something,” said Ron. “Is there anything missing?"
"Riddle’s diary’s gone,"
"What?"
"But — only a Gryffindor could have stolen — nobody else knows our password —"
"Exactly,"
"Perfect Quidditch conditions!” said Wood enthusiastically at the Gryffindor table, loading the team’s plates with scrambled eggs. “Harry, buck up there, you need a decent breakfast."
"Kill this time . . . let me rip . . . tear . . ."
"The voice!” said Harry, looking over his shoulder. “I just heard it again — didn’t you?"
"Harry — I think I’ve just understood something! I’ve got to go to the library!"
"What does she understand?"
"Loads more than I do,"
"But why’s she got to go to the library?"
"Because that’s what Hermione does,” said Ron, shrugging. “When in doubt, go to the library."
"You’d better get moving,” said Ron. “It’s nearly eleven — the match —"
"This match has been canceled,"
"But, Professor!” he shouted. “We’ve got to play — the Cup — Gryffindor —"
"All students are to make their way back to the House common rooms, where their Heads of Houses will give them further information. As quickly as you can, please!"
"Potter, I think you’d better come with me. . . ."
"Yes, perhaps you’d better come, too, Weasley. . . ."
"This will be a bit of a shock,” said Professor McGonagall in a surprisingly gentle voice as they approached the infirmary. “There has been another attack . . . another double attack."
"Hermione!"
"They were found near the library,” said Professor McGonagall. “I don’t suppose either of you can explain this? It was on the floor next to them. . . ."
"I will escort you back to Gryffindor Tower,” said Professor McGonagall heavily. “I need to address the students in any case."
"All students will return to their House common rooms by six o’clock in the evening. No student is to leave the dormitories after that time. You will be escorted to each lesson by a teacher. No student is to use the bathroom unaccompanied by a teacher. All further Quidditch training and matches are to be postponed. There will be no more evening activities."
"I need hardly add that I have rarely been so distressed. It is likely that the school will be closed unless the culprit behind these attacks is caught. I would urge anyone who thinks they might know anything about them to come forward."
"That’s two Gryffindors down, not counting a Gryffindor ghost, one Ravenclaw, and one Hufflepuff,” said the Weasley twins’ friend Lee Jordan, counting on his fingers. “Haven’t any of the teachers noticed that the Slytherins are all safe? Isn’t it obvious all this stuff’s coming from Slytherin? The Heir of Slytherin, the monster of Slytherin — why don’t they just chuck all the Slytherins out?"
"Percy’s in shock,” George told Harry quietly. “That Ravenclaw girl — Penelope Clearwater — she’s a prefect. I don’t think he thought the monster would dare attack a prefect."
"What’re we going to do?” said Ron quietly in Harry’s ear. “D’you think they suspect Hagrid?"
"We’ve got to go and talk to him,” said Harry, making up his mind. “I can’t believe it’s him this time, but if he set the monster loose last time he’ll know how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets, and that’s a start."
"But McGonagall said we’ve got to stay in our tower unless we’re in class —"
"I think,” said Harry, more quietly still, “it’s time to get my dad’s old Cloak out again."
"Oh,” he said, lowering the weapon and staring at them. “What’re you two doin’ here?"
"What’s that for?"
"Nothin’ — nothin’ —” Hagrid muttered. “I’ve bin expectin’ — doesn’ matter — Sit down — I’ll make tea —"
"Are you okay, Hagrid?” said Harry. “Did you hear about Hermione?"
"Oh, I heard, all righ’,"
"Good evening, Hagrid."
"That’s Dad’s boss!” Ron breathed. “Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic!"
"Bad business, Hagrid,” said Fudge in rather clipped tones. “Very bad business. Had to come. Four attacks on Muggle-borns. Things’ve gone far enough. Ministry’s got to act."
"I never,” said Hagrid, looking imploringly at Dumbledore. “You know I never, Professor Dumbledore, sir —"
"I want it understood, Cornelius, that Hagrid has my full confidence,"
"Look, Albus,” said Fudge, uncomfortably. “Hagrid’s record’s against him. Ministry’s got to do something — the school governors have been in touch —"
"Yet again, Cornelius, I tell you that taking Hagrid away will not help in the slightest,"
"Look at it from my point of view,” said Fudge, fidgeting with his bowler. “I’m under a lot of pressure. Got to be seen to be doing something. If it turns out it wasn’t Hagrid, he’ll be back and no more said. But I’ve got to take him. Got to. Wouldn’t be doing my duty —"
"Take me?” said Hagrid, who was trembling. “Take me where?"
"For a short stretch only,” said Fudge, not meeting Hagrid’s eyes. “Not a punishment, Hagrid, more a precaution. If someone else is caught, you’ll be let out with a full apology —"
"Not Azkaban?"
"Already here, Fudge,” he said approvingly. “Good, good . . ."
"What’re you doin’ here?” said Hagrid furiously. “Get outta my house!"
"My dear man, please believe me, I have no pleasure at all in being inside your — er — d’you call this a house?” said Lucius Malfoy, sneering as he looked around the small cabin. “I simply called at the school and was told that the headmaster was here."
"And what exactly did you want with me, Lucius?"
"Dreadful thing, Dumbledore,” said Malfoy lazily, taking out a long roll of parchment, “but the governors feel it’s time for you to step aside. This is an Order of Suspension — you’ll find all twelve signatures on it. I’m afraid we feel you’re losing your touch. How many attacks have there been now? Two more this afternoon, wasn’t it? At this rate, there’ll be no Muggle-borns left at Hogwarts, and we all know what an awful loss that would be to the school."
"Oh, now, see here, Lucius,” said Fudge, looking alarmed, “Dumbledore suspended — no, no — last thing we want just now —"
"The appointment — or suspension — of the headmaster is a matter for the governors, Fudge,” said Mr. Malfoy smoothly. “And as Dumbledore has failed to stop these attacks —"
"See here, Malfoy, if Dumbledore can’t stop them,” said Fudge, whose upper lip was sweating now, “I mean to say, who can?"
"That remains to be seen,” said Mr. Malfoy with a nasty smile. “But as all twelve of us have voted —"
"An’ how many did yeh have ter threaten an’ blackmail before they agreed, Malfoy, eh?"
"Dear, dear, you know, that temper of yours will lead you into trouble one of these days, Hagrid,” said Mr. Malfoy. “I would advise you not to shout at the Azkaban guards like that. They won’t like it at all."
"Yeh can’ take Dumbledore!” yelled Hagrid, making Fang the boarhound cower and whimper in his basket. “Take him away, an’ the Muggle-borns won’ stand a chance! There’ll be killin’ next!"
"Calm yourself, Hagrid,"
"If the governors want my removal, Lucius, I shall of course step aside —"
"But —"
"No!"
"However,” said Dumbledore, speaking very slowly and clearly so that none of them could miss a word, “you will find that I will only truly have left this school when none here are loyal to me. You will also find that help will always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it."
"Admirable sentiments,” said Malfoy, bowing. “We shall all miss your — er — highly individual way of running things, Albus, and only hope that your successor will manage to prevent any — ah — killins."
"If anyone wanted ter find out some stuff, all they’d have ter do would be ter follow the spiders. That’d lead ’em right! That’s all I’m sayin’."
"All right, I’m comin’,” said Hagrid, pulling on his moleskin overcoat. But as he was about to follow Fudge through the door, he stopped again and said loudly, “An’ someone’ll need ter feed Fang while I’m away."
"We’re in trouble now,” he said hoarsely. “No Dumbledore. They might as well close the school tonight. There’ll be an attack a day with him gone."
"We’re taking no more chances,” Madam Pomfrey told them severely through a crack in the infirmary door. “No, I’m sorry, there’s every chance the attacker might come back to finish these people off. . . ."
"I will only truly have left this school when none here are loyal to me. . . . Help will always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it."
"I always thought Father might be the one who got rid of Dumbledore,” he said, not troubling to keep his voice down. “I told you he thinks Dumbledore’s the worst headmaster the school’s ever had. Maybe we’ll get a decent headmaster now. Someone who won’t want the Chamber of Secrets closed. McGonagall won’t last long, she’s only filling in. . . ."
"Sir,” said Malfoy loudly. “Sir, why don’t you apply for the headmaster’s job?"
"Now, now, Malfoy,” said Snape, though he couldn’t suppress a thin-lipped smile. “Professor Dumbledore has only been suspended by the governors. I daresay he’ll be back with us soon enough."
"Yeah, right,” said Malfoy, smirking. “I expect you’d have Father’s vote, sir, if you wanted to apply for the job — I’ll tell Father you’re the best teacher here, sir —"
"I’m quite surprised the Mudbloods haven’t all packed their bags by now,” Malfoy went on. “Bet you five Galleons the next one dies. Pity it wasn’t Granger —"
"Let me at him,” Ron growled as Harry and Dean hung onto his arms. “I don’t care, I don’t need my wand, I’m going to kill him with my bare hands —"
"Hurry up, I’ve got to take you all to Herbology,"
"I just want to say, Harry, that I’m sorry I ever suspected you. I know you’d never attack Hermione Granger, and I apologize for all the stuff I said. We’re all in the same boat now, and, well —"
"That Draco Malfoy character,” said Ernie, breaking off dead twigs, “he seems very pleased about all this, doesn’t he? D’you know, I think he might be Slytherin’s heir."
"That’s clever of you,"
"Do you think it’s Malfoy, Harry?"
"No,"
"Ouch! What’re you —"
"Oh, yeah,” said Ron, trying, and failing, to look pleased. “But we can’t follow them now —"
"Looks like they’re heading for the Forbidden Forest. . . ."
"We’ll have to use the Invisibility Cloak again,” Harry told Ron. “We can take Fang with us. He’s used to going into the forest with Hagrid, he might be some help."
"Right,” said Ron, who was twirling his wand nervously in his fingers. “Er — aren’t there — aren’t there supposed to be werewolves in the forest?"
"There are good things in there, too. The centaurs are all right, and the unicorns . . ."
"Come now,” he cried, beaming around him. “Why all these long faces?"
"Don’t you people realize,” said Lockhart, speaking slowly, as though they were all a bit dim, “the danger has passed! The culprit has been taken away —"
"Says who?"
"My dear young man, the Minister of Magic wouldn’t have taken Hagrid if he hadn’t been one hundred percent sure that he was guilty,"
"Oh, yes he would,"
"I flatter myself I know a touch more about Hagrid’s arrest than you do, Mr. Weasley,"
"We weren’t there, remember?"
"’Course,” said Ron abruptly as they strode across the black grass, “we might get to the forest and find there’s nothing to follow. Those spiders might not’ve been going there at all. I know it looked like they were moving in that sort of general direction, but . . ."
"C’mon, Fang, we’re going for a walk,"
"Lumos!"
"Good thinking,” said Ron. “I’d light mine, too, but you know — it’d probably blow up or something. . . ."
"Okay,” Ron sighed as though resigned to the worst, “I’m ready. Let’s go."
"What d’you reckon?"
"We’ve come this far,"
"What?"
"There’s something moving over there,” Harry breathed. “Listen . . . sounds like something big. . . ."
"Oh, no,” said Ron. “Oh, no, oh, no, oh —"
"Shut up,” said Harry frantically. “It’ll hear you."
"Hear me?” said Ron in an unnaturally high voice. “It’s already heard Fang!"
"What d’you think it’s doing?"
"Probably getting ready to pounce,"
"D’you think it’s gone?"
"Dunno —"
"Harry!” Ron shouted, his voice breaking with relief. “Harry, it’s our car!"
"What?"
"Come on!"
"It’s been here all the time!” said Ron delightedly, walking around the car. “Look at it. The forest’s turned it wild. . . ."
"And we thought it was going to attack us!” said Ron, leaning against the car and patting it. “I wondered where it had gone!"
"We’ve lost the trail,” he said. “C’mon, let’s go and find them."
"Aragog!” it called. “Aragog!"
"What is it?"
"Men,"
"Is it Hagrid?"
"Strangers,"
"Kill them,” clicked Aragog fretfully. “I was sleeping. . . ."
"We’re friends of Hagrid’s,"
"Hagrid has never sent men into our hollow before,"
"Hagrid’s in trouble,” said Harry, breathing very fast. “That’s why we’ve come."
"In trouble?” said the aged spider, and Harry thought he heard concern beneath the clicking pincers. “But why has he sent you?"
"They think, up at the school, that Hagrid’s been setting a — a — something on students. They’ve taken him to Azkaban."
"But that was years ago,” said Aragog fretfully. “Years and years ago. I remember it well. That’s why they made him leave the school. They believed that I was the monster that dwells in what they call the Chamber of Secrets. They thought that Hagrid had opened the Chamber and set me free."
"And you . . . you didn’t come from the Chamber of Secrets?"
"I!” said Aragog, clicking angrily. “I was not born in the castle. I come from a distant land. A traveler gave me to Hagrid when I was an egg. Hagrid was only a boy, but he cared for me, hidden in a cupboard in the castle, feeding me on scraps from the table. Hagrid is my good friend, and a good man. When I was discovered, and blamed for the death of a girl, he protected me. I have lived here in the forest ever since, where Hagrid still visits me. He even found me a wife, Mosag, and you see how our family has grown, all through Hagrid’s goodness. . . ."
"So you never — never attacked anyone?"
"Never,” croaked the old spider. “It would have been my instinct, but out of respect for Hagrid, I never harmed a human. The body of the girl who was killed was discovered in a bathroom. I never saw any part of the castle but the cupboard in which I grew up. Our kind like the dark and the quiet. . . ."
"But then . . . Do you know what did kill that girl?” said Harry. “Because whatever it is, it’s back and attacking people again —"
"The thing that lives in the castle,” said Aragog, “is an ancient creature we spiders fear above all others. Well do I remember how I pleaded with Hagrid to let me go, when I sensed the beast moving about the school."
"What is it?"
"We do not speak of it!” said Aragog fiercely. “We do not name it! I never even told Hagrid the name of that dread creature, though he asked me, many times."
"We’ll just go, then,"
"Go?” said Aragog slowly. “I think not. . . ."
"But — but —"
"My sons and daughters do not harm Hagrid, on my command. But I cannot deny them fresh meat, when it wanders so willingly into our midst. Good-bye, friend of Hagrid."
"Get Fang!"
"Are you okay?"
"Follow the spiders,” said Ron weakly, wiping his mouth on his sleeve. “I’ll never forgive Hagrid. We’re lucky to be alive."
"I bet he thought Aragog wouldn’t hurt friends of his,"
"That’s exactly Hagrid’s problem!” said Ron, thumping the wall of the cabin. “He always thinks monsters aren’t as bad as they’re made out, and look where it’s got him! A cell in Azkaban!” He was shivering uncontrollably now. “What was the point of sending us in there? What have we found out, I’d like to know?"
"That Hagrid never opened the Chamber of Secrets,” said Harry, throwing the Cloak over Ron and prodding him in the arm to make him walk. “He was innocent."
"Ron,” he hissed through the dark, “Ron —"
"Ron — that girl who died. Aragog said she was found in a bathroom,” said Harry, ignoring Neville’s snuffling snores from the corner. “What if she never left the bathroom? What if she’s still there?"
"You don’t think — not Moaning Myrtle?"
"and we could’ve asked her, and now . . ."
"Exams?” howled Seamus Finnigan. “We’re still getting exams?"
"The whole point of keeping the school open at this time is for you to receive your education,” she said sternly. “The exams will therefore take place as usual, and I trust you are all studying hard."
"Professor Dumbledore’s instructions were to keep the school running as normally as possible,” she said. “And that, I need hardly point out, means finding out how much you have learned this year."
"Can you imagine me taking exams with this?"
"I have good news,"
"Dumbledore’s coming back!"
"You’ve caught the Heir of Slytherin!"
"Quidditch matches are back on!"
"Professor Sprout has informed me that the Mandrakes are ready for cutting at last. Tonight, we will be able to revive those people who have been Petrified. I need hardly remind you all that one of them may well be able to tell us who, or what, attacked them. I am hopeful that this dreadful year will end with our catching the culprit."
"It won’t matter that we never asked Myrtle, then!” he said to Harry. “Hermione’ll probably have all the answers when they wake her up! Mind you, she’ll go crazy when she finds out we’ve got exams in three days’ time. She hasn’t studied. It might be kinder to leave her where she is till they’re over."
"What’s up?"
"Spit it out,"
"I’ve got to tell you something,"
"What is it?"
"What?"
"Is it something about the Chamber of Secrets? Have you seen something? Someone acting oddly?"
"If you’ve finished eating, I’ll take that seat, Ginny. I’m starving, I’ve only just come off patrol duty."
"Percy!” said Ron angrily. “She was just about to tell us something important!"
"What sort of thing?"
"I just asked her if she’d seen anything odd, and she started to say —"
"Oh — that — that’s nothing to do with the Chamber of Secrets,"
"How do you know?"
"Well, er, if you must know, Ginny, er, walked in on me the other day when I was — well, never mind — the point is, she spotted me doing something and I, um, I asked her not to mention it to anybody. I must say, I did think she’d keep her word. It’s nothing, really, I’d just rather —"
"What were you doing, Percy?” said Ron, grinning. “Go on, tell us, we won’t laugh."
"Pass me those rolls, Harry, I’m starving."
"Mark my words,” he said, ushering them around a corner. “The first words out of those poor Petrified people’s mouths will be ‘It was Hagrid.’ Frankly, I’m astounded Professor McGonagall thinks all these security measures are necessary."
"I agree, sir,"
"Thank you, Harry,” said Lockhart graciously while they waited for a long line of Hufflepuffs to pass. “I mean, we teachers have quite enough to be getting on with, without walking students to classes and standing guard all night. . . ."
"That’s right,” said Ron, catching on. “Why don’t you leave us here, sir, we’ve only got one more corridor to go —"
"You know, Weasley, I think I will,” said Lockhart. “I really should go and prepare my next class —"
"Prepare his class,” Ron sneered after him. “Gone to curl his hair, more like."
"Potter! Weasley! What are you doing?"
"We were — we were —” Ron stammered. “We were going to — to go and see —"
"Hermione,"
"We haven’t seen her for ages, Professor,” Harry went on hurriedly, treading on Ron’s foot, “and we thought we’d sneak into the hospital wing, you know, and tell her the Mandrakes are nearly ready and, er, not to worry —"
"Of course,” she said, and Harry, amazed, saw a tear glistening in her beady eye. “Of course, I realize this has all been hardest on the friends of those who have been . . . I quite understand. Yes, Potter, of course you may visit Miss Granger. I will inform Professor Binns where you’ve gone. Tell Madam Pomfrey I have given my permission."
"That,” said Ron fervently, “was the best story you’ve ever come up with."
"There’s just no point talking to a Petrified person,"
"Wonder if she did see the attacker, though?” said Ron, looking sadly at Hermione’s rigid face. “Because if he sneaked up on them all, no one’ll ever know. . . ."
"Try and get it out,"
"Ron,” he breathed. “This is it. This is the answer. The monster in the Chamber’s a basilisk — a giant serpent! That’s why I’ve been hearing that voice all over the place, and nobody else has heard it. It’s because I understand Parseltongue. . . ."
"The basilisk kills people by looking at them. But no one’s died — because no one looked it straight in the eye. Colin saw it through his camera. The basilisk burned up all the film inside it, but Colin just got Petrified. Justin . . . Justin must’ve seen the basilisk through Nearly Headless Nick! Nick got the full blast of it, but he couldn’t die again . . . and Hermione and that Ravenclaw prefect were found with a mirror next to them. Hermione had just realized the monster was a basilisk. I bet you anything she warned the first person she met to look around corners with a mirror first! And that girl pulled out her mirror — and —"
"And Mrs. Norris?"
"The water . . .” he said slowly. “The flood from Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. I bet you Mrs. Norris only saw the reflection. . . ."
"‘The Basilisk flees only from the crowing of the rooster, which is fatal to it’!” he read aloud. “Hagrid’s roosters were killed! The Heir of Slytherin didn’t want one anywhere near the castle once the Chamber was opened! ‘Spiders flee before the Basilisk’! It all fits!"
"But how’s the basilisk been getting around the place?” said Ron. “A giant snake . . . Someone would’ve seen . . ."
"Pipes,” he said. “Pipes . . . Ron, it’s been using the plumbing. I’ve been hearing that voice inside the walls. . . ."
"The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets!” he said hoarsely. “What if it’s a bathroom? What if it’s in —"
"— Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom,"
"This means,” said Harry, “I can’t be the only Parselmouth in the school. The Heir of Slytherin’s one, too. That’s how he’s been controlling the basilisk."
"What’re we going to do?” said Ron, whose eyes were flashing. “Should we go straight to McGonagall?"
"Let’s go to the staffroom,” said Harry, jumping up. “She’ll be there in ten minutes. It’s nearly break."
"All students to return to their House dormitories at once. All teachers return to the staffroom. Immediately, please."
"Not another attack? Not now?"
"What’ll we do?” said Ron, aghast. “Go back to the dormitory?"
"No,” said Harry, glancing around. There was an ugly sort of wardrobe to his left, full of the teachers’ cloaks. “In here. Let’s hear what it’s all about. Then we can tell them what we’ve found out."
"It has happened,” she told the silent staffroom. “A student has been taken by the monster. Right into the Chamber itself."
"How can you be sure?"
"The Heir of Slytherin,” said Professor McGonagall, who was very white, “left another message. Right underneath the first one. ‘Her skeleton will lie in the Chamber forever.’"
"Who is it?” said Madam Hooch, who had sunk, weak-kneed, into a chair. “Which student?"
"Ginny Weasley,"
"We shall have to send all the students home tomorrow,” said Professor McGonagall. “This is the end of Hogwarts. Dumbledore always said . . ."
"So sorry — dozed off — what have I missed?"
"Just the man,” he said. “The very man. A girl has been snatched by the monster, Lockhart. Taken into the Chamber of Secrets itself. Your moment has come at last."
"That’s right, Gilderoy,” chipped in Professor Sprout. “Weren’t you saying just last night that you’ve known all along where the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets is?"
"I — well, I —"
"Yes, didn’t you tell me you were sure you knew what was inside it?"
"D-did I? I don’t recall —"
"I certainly remember you saying you were sorry you hadn’t had a crack at the monster before Hagrid was arrested,” said Snape. “Didn’t you say that the whole affair had been bungled, and that you should have been given a free rein from the first?"
"I — I really never — you may have misunderstood —"
"We’ll leave it to you, then, Gilderoy,” said Professor McGonagall. “Tonight will be an excellent time to do it. We’ll make sure everyone’s out of your way. You’ll be able to tackle the monster all by youself. A free rein at last."
"V-very well,” he said. “I’ll — I’ll be in my office, getting — getting ready."
"Right,” said Professor McGonagall, whose nostrils were flared, “that’s got him out from under our feet. The Heads of Houses should go and inform their students what has happened. Tell them the Hogwarts Express will take them home first thing tomorrow. Will the rest of you please make sure no students have been left outside their dormitories."
"She knew something, Harry,” said Ron, speaking for the first time since they had entered the wardrobe in the staffroom. “That’s why she was taken. It wasn’t some stupid thing about Percy at all. She’d found out something about the Chamber of Secrets. That must be why she was —” Ron rubbed his eyes frantically. “I mean, she was a pureblood. There can’t be any other reason."
"Harry,” said Ron. “D’you think there’s any chance at all she’s not — you know —"
"D’you know what?” said Ron. “I think we should go and see Lockhart. Tell him what we know. He’s going to try and get into the Chamber. We can tell him where we think it is, and tell him it’s a basilisk in there."
"Oh — Mr. Potter — Mr. Weasley —” he said, opening the door a bit wider. “I’m rather busy at the moment — if you would be quick —"
"Professor, we’ve got some information for you,” said Harry. “We think it’ll help you."
"Er — well — it’s not terribly —” The side of Lockhart’s face that they could see looked very uncomfortable. “I mean — well — all right —"
"Are you going somewhere?"
"Er, well, yes,” said Lockhart, ripping a life-size poster of himself from the back of the door as he spoke and starting to roll it up. “Urgent call — unavoidable — got to go —"
"What about my sister?"
"Well, as to that — most unfortunate —” said Lockhart, avoiding their eyes as he wrenched open a drawer and started emptying the contents into a bag. “No one regrets more than I —"
"You’re the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher!” said Harry. “You can’t go now! Not with all the Dark stuff going on here!"
"Well — I must say — when I took the job —” Lockhart muttered, now piling socks on top of his robes. “nothing in the job description — didn’t expect —"
"You mean you’re running away?” said Harry disbelievingly. “After all that stuff you did in your books —"
"Books can be misleading,"
"You wrote them!"
"My dear boy,” said Lockhart, straightening up and frowning at Harry. “Do use your common sense. My books wouldn’t have sold half as well if people didn’t think I’d done all those things. No one wants to read about some ugly old Armenian warlock, even if he did save a village from werewolves. He’d look dreadful on the front cover. No dress sense at all. And the witch who banished the Bandon Banshee had a hairy chin. I mean, come on —"
"So you’ve just been taking credit for what a load of other people have done?"
"Harry, Harry,” said Lockhart, shaking his head impatiently, “it’s not nearly as simple as that. There was work involved. I had to track these people down. Ask them exactly how they managed to do what they did. Then I had to put a Memory Charm on them so they wouldn’t remember doing it. If there’s one thing I pride myself on, it’s my Memory Charms. No, it’s been a lot of work, Harry. It’s not all book signings and publicity photos, you know. You want fame, you have to be prepared for a long hard slog."
"Let’s see,” he said. “I think that’s everything. Yes. Only one thing left."
"Awfully sorry, boys, but I’ll have to put a Memory Charm on you now. Can’t have you blabbing my secrets all over the place. I’d never sell another book —"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Shouldn’t have let Professor Snape teach us that one,"
"What d’you want me to do?” said Lockhart weakly. “I don’t know where the Chamber of Secrets is. There’s nothing I can do."
"You’re in luck,” said Harry, forcing Lockhart to his feet at wandpoint. “We think we know where it is. And what’s inside it. Let’s go."
"Oh, it’s you,” she said when she saw Harry. “What do you want this time?"
"To ask you how you died,"
"Ooooh, it was dreadful,” she said with relish. “It happened right in here. I died in this very stall. I remember it so well. I’d hidden because Olive Hornby was teasing me about my glasses. The door was locked, and I was crying, and then I heard somebody come in. They said something funny. A different language, I think it must have been. Anyway, what really got me was that it was a boy speaking. So I unlocked the door, to tell him to go and use his own toilet, and then —” Myrtle swelled importantly, her face shining. “I died."
"How?"
"No idea,” said Myrtle in hushed tones. “I just remember seeing a pair of great, big, yellow eyes. My whole body sort of seized up, and then I was floating away. . . .” She looked dreamily at Harry. “And then I came back again. I was determined to haunt Olive Hornby, you see. Oh, she was sorry she’d ever laughed at my glasses."
"Where exactly did you see the eyes?"
"Somewhere there,"
"That tap’s never worked,"
"Harry,” said Ron. “Say something. Something in Parseltongue."
"But —"
"Open up,"
"English,"
"Open up,"
"I’m going down there,"
"Me too,"
"Well, you hardly seem to need me,” said Lockhart, with a shadow of his old smile. “I’ll just —"
"You can go first,"
"Boys,” he said, his voice feeble. “Boys, what good will it do?"
"I really don’t think —"
"We must be miles under the school,"
"Under the lake, probably,"
"Lumos!” Harry muttered to his wand and it lit again. “C’mon,"
"Remember,” Harry said quietly as they walked cautiously forward, “any sign of movement, close your eyes right away. . . ."
"Harry — there’s something up there —"
"Maybe it’s asleep,"
"Blimey,"
"Get up,"
"The adventure ends here, boys!” he said. “I shall take a bit of this skin back up to the school, tell them I was too late to save the girl, and that you two tragically lost your minds at the sight of her mangled body — say good-bye to your memories!"
"Obliviate!"
"Ron!” he shouted. “Are you okay? Ron!"
"I’m here!” came Ron’s muffled voice from behind the rockfall. “I’m okay — this git’s not, though — he got blasted by the wand —"
"ow!"
"What now?” Ron’s voice said, sounding desperate. “We can’t get through — it’ll take ages. . . ."
"ow!"
"Wait there,” he called to Ron. “Wait with Lockhart. I’ll go on. . . . If I’m not back in an hour . . ."
"I’ll try and shift some of this rock,” said Ron, who seemed to be trying to keep his voice steady. “So you can — can get back through. And, Harry —"
"See you in a bit,"
"Open,"
"Ginny!” Harry muttered, sprinting to her and dropping to his knees. “Ginny — don’t be dead — please don’t be dead —"
"Ginny, please wake up,"
"She won’t wake,"
"Tom — Tom Riddle?"
"What d’you mean, she won’t wake?” Harry said desperately. “She’s not — she’s not — ?"
"She’s still alive,” said Riddle. “But only just."
"Are you a ghost?"
"A memory,” said Riddle quietly. “Preserved in a diary for fifty years."
"You’ve got to help me, Tom,” Harry said, raising Ginny’s head again. “We’ve got to get her out of here. There’s a basilisk . . . I don’t know where it is, but it could be along any moment. . . . Please, help me —"
"Did you see — ?"
"Thanks,"
"Listen,” said Harry urgently, his knees sagging with Ginny’s dead weight. “We’ve got to go! If the basilisk comes —"
"It won’t come until it is called,"
"What d’you mean?” he said. “Look, give me my wand, I might need it —"
"You won’t be needing it,"
"What d’you mean, I won’t be — ?"
"I’ve waited a long time for this, Harry Potter,” said Riddle. “For the chance to see you. To speak to you."
"Look,” said Harry, losing patience, “I don’t think you get it. We’re in the Chamber of Secrets. We can talk later —"
"We’re going to talk now,"
"How did Ginny get like this?"
"Well, that’s an interesting question,” said Riddle pleasantly. “And quite a long story. I suppose the real reason Ginny Weasley’s like this is because she opened her heart and spilled all her secrets to an invisible stranger."
"What are you talking about?"
"The diary,” said Riddle. “My diary. Little Ginny’s been writing in it for months and months, telling me all her pitiful worries and woes — how her brothers tease her, how she had to come to school with secondhand robes and books, how” — Riddle’s eyes glinted — “how she didn’t think famous, good, great Harry Potter would ever like her. . . ."
"It’s very boring, having to listen to the silly little troubles of an eleven-year-old girl,” he went on. “But I was patient. I wrote back. I was sympathetic, I was kind. Ginny simply loved me. No one’s ever understood me like you, Tom. . . . I’m so glad I’ve got this diary to confide in. . . . It’s like having a friend I can carry around in my pocket. . . ."
"If I say it myself, Harry, I’ve always been able to charm the people I needed. So Ginny poured out her soul to me, and her soul happened to be exactly what I wanted. . . . I grew stronger and stronger on a diet of her deepest fears, her darkest secrets. I grew powerful, far more powerful than little Miss Weasley. Powerful enough to start feeding Miss Weasley a few of my secrets, to start pouring a little of my soul back into her . . ."
"What d’you mean?"
"Haven’t you guessed yet, Harry Potter?” said Riddle softly. “Ginny Weasley opened the Chamber of Secrets. She strangled the school roosters and daubed threatening messages on the walls. She set the serpent of Slytherin on four Mudbloods, and the Squib’s cat."
"No,"
"Yes,” said Riddle calmly. “Of course, she didn’t know what she was doing at first. It was very amusing. I wish you could have seen her new diary entries . . . far more interesting, they became. . . . Dear Tom,” he recited, watching Harry’s horrified face, “I think I’m losing my memory. There are rooster feathers all over my robes and I don’t know how they got there. Dear Tom, I can’t remember what I did on the night of Halloween, but a cat was attacked and I’ve got paint all down my front. Dear Tom, Percy keeps telling me I’m pale and I’m not myself. I think he suspects me. . . . There was another attack today and I don’t know where I was. Tom, what am I going to do? I think I’m going mad. . . . I think I’m the one attacking everyone, Tom!"
"It took a very long time for stupid little Ginny to stop trusting her diary,” said Riddle. “But she finally became suspicious and tried to dispose of it. And that’s where you came in, Harry. You found it, and I couldn’t have been more delighted. Of all the people who could have picked it up, it was you, the very person I was most anxious to meet. . . ."
"And why did you want to meet me?"
"Well, you see, Ginny told me all about you, Harry,” said Riddle. “Your whole fascinating history.” His eyes roved over the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead, and their expression grew hungrier. “I knew I must find out more about you, talk to you, meet you if I could. So I decided to show you my famous capture of that great oaf, Hagrid, to gain your trust —"
"Hagrid’s my friend,” said Harry, his voice now shaking. “And you framed him, didn’t you? I thought you made a mistake, but —"
"Only the Transfiguration teacher, Dumbledore, seemed to think Hagrid was innocent. He persuaded Dippet to keep Hagrid and train him as gamekeeper. Yes, I think Dumbledore might have guessed. . . . Dumbledore never seemed to like me as much as the other teachers did. . . ."
"I bet Dumbledore saw right through you,"
"Well, he certainly kept an annoyingly close watch on me after Hagrid was expelled,” said Riddle carelessly. “I knew it wouldn’t be safe to open the Chamber again while I was still at school. But I wasn’t going to waste those long years I’d spent searching for it. I decided to leave behind a diary, preserving my sixteen-year-old self in its pages, so that one day, with luck, I would be able to lead another in my footsteps, and finish Salazar Slytherin’s noble work."
"Well, you haven’t finished it,” said Harry triumphantly. “No one’s died this time, not even the cat. In a few hours the Mandrake Draught will be ready and everyone who was Petrified will be all right again —"
"Haven’t I already told you,” said Riddle quietly, “that killing Mudbloods doesn’t matter to me anymore? For many months now, my new target has been — you."
"So I made Ginny write her own farewell on the wall and come down here to wait. She struggled and cried and became very boring. But there isn’t much life left in her. . . . She put too much into the diary, into me. Enough to let me leave its pages at last. . . . I have been waiting for you to appear since we arrived here. I knew you’d come. I have many questions for you, Harry Potter."
"Like what?"
"Well,” said Riddle, smiling pleasantly, “how is it that you — a skinny boy with no extraordinary magical talent — managed to defeat the greatest wizard of all time? How did you escape with nothing but a scar, while Lord Voldemort’s powers were destroyed?"
"Why do you care how I escaped?” said Harry slowly. “Voldemort was after your time. . . ."
"Voldemort,” said Riddle softly, “is my past, present, and future, Harry Potter. . . ."
"You see?” he whispered. “It was a name I was already using at Hogwarts, to my most intimate friends only, of course. You think I was going to use my filthy Muggle father’s name forever? I, in whose veins runs the blood of Salazar Slytherin himself, through my mother’s side? I, keep the name of a foul, common Muggle, who abandoned me even before I was born, just because he found out his wife was a witch? No, Harry — I fashioned myself a new name, a name I knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to speak, when I had become the greatest sorcerer in the world!"
"You’re not,"
"Not what?"
"Not the greatest sorcerer in the world,” said Harry, breathing fast. “Sorry to disappoint you and all that, but the greatest wizard in the world is Albus Dumbledore. Everyone says so. Even when you were strong, you didn’t dare try and take over at Hogwarts. Dumbledore saw through you when you were at school and he still frightens you now, wherever you’re hiding these days —"
"Dumbledore’s been driven out of this castle by the mere memory of me!"
"He’s not as gone as you might think!"
"That’s a phoenix. . . ."
"Fawkes?"
"And that — ” said Riddle, now eyeing the ragged thing that Fawkes had dropped, “that’s the old school Sorting Hat —"
"This is what Dumbledore sends his defender! A songbird and an old hat! Do you feel brave, Harry Potter? Do you feel safe now?"
"To business, Harry,” said Riddle, still smiling broadly. “Twice — in your past, in my future — we have met. And twice I failed to kill you. How did you survive? Tell me everything. The longer you talk,” he added softly, “the longer you stay alive."
"No one knows why you lost your powers when you attacked me,” said Harry abruptly. “I don’t know myself. But I know why you couldn’t kill me. Because my mother died to save me. My common Muggle-born mother,” he added, shaking with suppressed rage. “She stopped you killing me. And I’ve seen the real you, I saw you last year. You’re a wreck. You’re barely alive. That’s where all your power got you. You’re in hiding. You’re ugly, you’re foul —"
"So. Your mother died to save you. Yes, that’s a powerful counter-charm. I can see now . . . there is nothing special about you, after all. I wondered, you see. Because there are strange likenesses between us, Harry Potter. Even you must have noticed. Both half-bloods, orphans, raised by Muggles. Probably the only two Parselmouths to come to Hogwarts since the great Slytherin himself. We even look something alike. . . . But after all, it was merely a lucky chance that saved you from me. That’s all I wanted to know."
"Now, Harry, I’m going to teach you a little lesson. Let’s match the powers of Lord Voldemort, Heir of Salazar Slytherin, against famous Harry Potter, and the best weapons Dumbledore can give him. . . ."
"Speak to me, Slytherin, greatest of the Hogwarts Four."
"Don’t leave me!"
"Kill him."
"NO!” Harry heard Riddle screaming. “LEAVE THE BIRD! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BEHIND YOU! YOU CAN STILL SMELL HIM! KILL HIM!"
"Help me, help me,” Harry muttered wildly, “someone — anyone —"
"KILL THE BOY! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BEHIND YOU! SNIFF — SMELL HIM!"
"Fawkes,” said Harry thickly. “You were fantastic, Fawkes. . . ."
"You’re dead, Harry Potter,” said Riddle’s voice above him. “Dead. Even Dumbledore’s bird knows it. Do you see what he’s doing, Potter? He’s crying."
"I’m going to sit here and watch you die, Harry Potter. Take your time. I’m in no hurry."
"So ends the famous Harry Potter,” said Riddle’s distant voice. “Alone in the Chamber of Secrets, forsaken by his friends, defeated at last by the Dark Lord he so unwisely challenged. You’ll be back with your dear Mudblood mother soon, Harry. . . . She bought you twelve years of borrowed time . . . but Lord Voldemort got you in the end, as you knew he must. . . ."
"Get away, bird,” said Riddle’s voice suddenly. “Get away from him — I said, get away —"
"Phoenix tears . . .” said Riddle quietly, staring at Harry’s arm. “Of course . . . healing powers . . . I forgot . . ."
"But it makes no difference. In fact, I prefer it this way. Just you and me, Harry Potter . . . you and me. . . ."
"Harry — oh, Harry — I tried to tell you at b-breakfast, but I c-couldn’t say it in front of Percy — it was me, Harry — but I — I s-swear I d-didn’t mean to — R-Riddle made me, he t-took me over — and — how did you kill that — that thing? W-where’s Riddle? The last thing I r-remember is him coming out of the diary —"
"It’s all right,” said Harry, holding up the diary, and showing Ginny the fang hole, “Riddle’s finished. Look! Him and the basilisk. C’mon, Ginny, let’s get out of here —"
"I’m going to be expelled!” Ginny wept as Harry helped her awkwardly to her feet. “I’ve looked forward to coming to Hogwarts ever since B-Bill came and n-now I’ll have to leave and — w-what’ll Mum and Dad say?"
"Ron!” Harry yelled, speeding up. “Ginny’s okay! I’ve got her!"
"Ginny!” Ron thrust an arm through the gap in the rock to pull her through first. “You’re alive! I don’t believe it! What happened? How — what — where did that bird come from?"
"He’s Dumbledore’s,"
"How come you’ve got a sword?"
"I’ll explain when we get out of here,"
"But —"
"Later,” Harry said shortly. He didn’t think it was a good idea to tell Ron yet who’d been opening the Chamber, not in front of Ginny, anyway. “Where’s Lockhart?"
"Back there,” said Ron, still looking puzzled but jerking his head up the tunnel toward the pipe. “He’s in a bad way. Come and see."
"His memory’s gone,” said Ron. “The Memory Charm backfired. Hit him instead of us. Hasn’t got a clue who he is, or where he is, or who we are. I told him to come and wait here. He’s a danger to himself."
"Hello,” he said. “Odd sort of place, this, isn’t it? Do you live here?"
"No,"
"Have you thought how we’re going to get back up this?"
"He looks like he wants you to grab hold . . .” said Ron, looking perplexed. “But you’re much too heavy for a bird to pull up there —"
"Fawkes,” said Harry, “isn’t an ordinary bird.” He turned quickly to the others. “We’ve got to hold on to each other. Ginny, grab Ron’s hand. Professor Lockhart —"
"He means you,"
"You hold Ginny’s other hand —"
"Amazing! Amazing! This is just like magic!"
"You’re alive,"
"There’s no need to sound so disappointed,"
"Oh, well . . . I’d just been thinking . . . if you had died, you’d have been welcome to share my toilet,"
"Urgh!” said Ron as they left the bathroom for the dark, deserted corridor outside. “Harry! I think Myrtle’s grown fond of you! You’ve got competition, Ginny!"
"Where now?"
"Ginny!"
"You saved her! You saved her! How did you do it?"
"I think we’d all like to know that,"
"Very well,” Professor McGonagall prompted him as he paused, “so you found out where the entrance was — breaking a hundred school rules into pieces along the way, I might add — but how on earth did you all get out of there alive, Potter?"
"What interests me most,” said Dumbledore gently, “is how Lord Voldemort managed to enchant Ginny, when my sources tell me he is currently in hiding in the forests of Albania."
"W-what’s that?” said Mr. Weasley in a stunned voice. “You-Know-Who? En-enchant Ginny? But Ginny’s not . . . Ginny hasn’t been . . . has she?"
"It was this diary,” said Harry quickly, picking it up and showing it to Dumbledore. “Riddle wrote it when he was sixteen. . . ."
"Brilliant,” he said softly. “Of course, he was probably the most brilliant student Hogwarts has ever seen."
"Very few people know that Lord Voldemort was once called Tom Riddle. I taught him myself, fifty years ago, at Hogwarts. He disappeared after leaving the school . . . traveled far and wide . . . sank so deeply into the Dark Arts, consorted with the very worst of our kind, underwent so many dangerous, magical transformations, that when he resurfaced as Lord Voldemort, he was barely recognizable. Hardly anyone connected Lord Voldemort with the clever, handsome boy who was once Head Boy here."
"But, Ginny,” said Mrs. Weasley. “What’s our Ginny got to do with — with — him?"
"His d-diary!” Ginny sobbed. “I’ve b-been writing in it, and he’s been w-writing back all year —"
"Ginny!” said Mr. Weasley, flabbergasted. “Haven’t I taught you anything? What have I always told you? Never trust anything that can think for itself if you can’t see where it keeps its brain. Why didn’t you show the diary to me, or your mother? A suspicious object like that, it was clearly full of Dark Magic —"
"I d-didn’t know,” sobbed Ginny. “I found it inside one of the books Mum got me. I th-thought someone had just left it in there and forgotten about it —"
"Miss Weasley should go up to the hospital wing right away,” Dumbledore interrupted in a firm voice. “This has been a terrible ordeal for her. There will be no punishment. Older and wiser wizards than she have been hoodwinked by Lord Voldemort.” He strode over to the door and opened it. “Bed rest and perhaps a large, steaming mug of hot chocolate. I always find that cheers me up,” he added, twinkling kindly down at her. “You will find that Madam Pomfrey is still awake. She’s just giving out Mandrake juice — I daresay the basilisk’s victims will be waking up any moment."
"So Hermione’s okay!"
"There has been no lasting harm done, Ginny,"
"You know, Minerva,” Professor Dumbledore said thoughtfully to Professor McGonagall, “I think all this merits a good feast. Might I ask you to go and alert the kitchens?"
"Right,” said Professor McGonagall crisply, also moving to the door. “I’ll leave you to deal with Potter and Weasley, shall I?"
"Certainly,"
"I seem to remember telling you both that I would have to expel you if you broke any more school rules,"
"Which goes to show that the best of us must sometimes eat our words,” Dumbledore went on, smiling. “You will both receive Special Awards for Services to the School and — let me see — yes, I think two hundred points apiece for Gryffindor."
"But one of us seems to be keeping mightily quiet about his part in this dangerous adventure,” Dumbledore added. “Why so modest, Gilderoy?"
"Professor Dumbledore,” Ron said quickly, “there was an accident down in the Chamber of Secrets. Professor Lockhart —"
"Am I a professor?” said Lockhart in mild surprise. “Goodness. I expect I was hopeless, was I?"
"He tried to do a Memory Charm and the wand backfired,"
"Dear me,” said Dumbledore, shaking his head, his long silver mustache quivering. “Impaled upon your own sword, Gilderoy!"
"Sword?” said Lockhart dimly. “Haven’t got a sword. That boy has, though.” He pointed at Harry. “He’ll lend you one."
"Would you mind taking Professor Lockhart up to the infirmary, too?” Dumbledore said to Ron. “I’d like a few more words with Harry. . . ."
"Sit down, Harry,"
"First of all, Harry, I want to thank you,” said Dumbledore, eyes twinkling again. “You must have shown me real loyalty down in the Chamber. Nothing but that could have called Fawkes to you."
"And so you met Tom Riddle,” said Dumbledore thoughtfully. “I imagine he was most interested in you. . . ."
"Professor Dumbledore . . . Riddle said I’m like him. Strange likenesses, he said. . . ."
"Did he, now?” said Dumbledore, looking thoughtfully at Harry from under his thick silver eyebrows. “And what do you think, Harry?"
"I don’t think I’m like him!” said Harry, more loudly than he’d intended. “I mean, I’m — I’m in Gryffindor, I’m . . ."
"Professor,” he started again after a moment. “The Sorting Hat told me I’d — I’d have done well in Slytherin. Everyone thought I was Slytherin’s heir for a while . . . because I can speak Parseltongue. . . ."
"You can speak Parseltongue, Harry,” said Dumbledore calmly, “because Lord Voldemort — who is the last remaining descendant of Salazar Slytherin — can speak Parseltongue. Unless I’m much mistaken, he transferred some of his own powers to you the night he gave you that scar. Not something he intended to do, I’m sure. . . ."
"Voldemort put a bit of himself in me?"
"It certainly seems so."
"So I should be in Slytherin,” Harry said, looking desperately into Dumbledore’s face. “The Sorting Hat could see Slytherin’s power in me, and it —"
"Put you in Gryffindor,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Listen to me, Harry. You happen to have many qualities Salazar Slytherin prized in his hand-picked students. His own very rare gift, Parseltongue — resourcefulness — determination — a certain disregard for rules,” he added, his mustache quivering again. “Yet the Sorting Hat placed you in Gryffindor. You know why that was. Think."
"It only put me in Gryffindor,” said Harry in a defeated voice, “because I asked not to go in Slytherin. . . ."
"Exactly,” said Dumbledore, beaming once more. “Which makes you very different from Tom Riddle. It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.” Harry sat motionless in his chair, stunned. “If you want proof, Harry, that you belong in Gryffindor, I suggest you look more closely at this."
"Only a true Gryffindor could have pulled that out of the hat, Harry,"
"What you need, Harry, is some food and sleep. I suggest you go down to the feast, while I write to Azkaban — we need our gamekeeper back. And I must draft an advertisement for the Daily Prophet, too,” he added thoughtfully. “We’ll be needing a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. . . . Dear me, we do seem to run through them, don’t we?"
"Good evening, Lucius,"
"So!” he said “You’ve come back. The governors suspended you, but you still saw fit to return to Hogwarts."
"Well, you see, Lucius,” said Dumbledore, smiling serenely, “the other eleven governors contacted me today. It was something like being caught in a hailstorm of owls, to tell the truth. They’d heard that Arthur Weasley’s daughter had been killed and wanted me back here at once. They seemed to think I was the best man for the job after all. Very strange tales they told me, too. . . . Several of them seemed to think that you had threatened to curse their families if they didn’t agree to suspend me in the first place."
"So — have you stopped the attacks yet?” he sneered. “Have you caught the culprit?"
"We have,"
"Well?” said Mr. Malfoy sharply. “Who is it?"
"The same person as last time, Lucius,” said Dumbledore. “But this time, Lord Voldemort was acting through somebody else. By means of this diary."
"I see . . ."
"A clever plan,” said Dumbledore in a level voice, still staring Mr. Malfoy straight in the eye. “Because if Harry here” — Mr. Malfoy shot Harry a swift, sharp look — “and his friend Ron hadn’t discovered this book, why — Ginny Weasley might have taken all the blame. No one would ever have been able to prove she hadn’t acted of her own free will. . . ."
"And imagine,” Dumbledore went on, “what might have happened then. . . . The Weasleys are one of our most prominent pure-blood families. Imagine the effect on Arthur Weasley and his Muggle Protection Act, if his own daughter was discovered attacking and killing Muggle-borns. . . . Very fortunate the diary was discovered, and Riddle’s memories wiped from it. Who knows what the consequences might have been otherwise. . . ."
"Very fortunate,"
"Don’t you want to know how Ginny got hold of that diary, Mr. Malfoy?"
"How should I know how the stupid little girl got hold of it?"
"Because you gave it to her,” said Harry. “In Flourish and Blotts. You picked up her old Transfiguration book and slipped the diary inside it, didn’t you?"
"Prove it,"
"Oh, no one will be able to do that,” said Dumbledore, smiling at Harry. “Not now that Riddle has vanished from the book. On the other hand, I would advise you, Lucius, not to go giving out any more of Lord Voldemort’s old school things. If any more of them find their way into innocent hands, I think Arthur Weasley, for one, will make sure they are traced back to you. . . ."
"We’re going, Dobby!"
"Professor Dumbledore,” he said hurriedly. “Can I give that diary back to Mr. Malfoy, please?"
"Certainly, Harry,” said Dumbledore calmly. “But hurry. The feast, remember. . . ."
"Mr. Malfoy,” he gasped, skidding to a halt, “I’ve got something for you —"
"What the — ?"
"You’ll meet the same sticky end as your parents one of these days, Harry Potter,” he said softly. “They were meddlesome fools, too."
"Come, Dobby. I said, come."
"Master has given a sock,” said the elf in wonderment. “Master gave it to Dobby."
"What’s that?” spat Mr. Malfoy. “What did you say?"
"Got a sock,” said Dobby in disbelief. “Master threw it, and Dobby caught it, and Dobby — Dobby is free."
"You’ve lost me my servant, boy!"
"You shall not harm Harry Potter!"
"You shall go now,” he said fiercely, pointing down at Mr. Malfoy. “You shall not touch Harry Potter. You shall go now."
"Harry Potter freed Dobby!” said the elf shrilly, gazing up at Harry, moonlight from the nearest window reflected in his orb-like eyes. “Harry Potter set Dobby free!"
"Least I could do, Dobby,” said Harry, grinning. “Just promise never to try and save my life again."
"I’ve just got one question, Dobby,” said Harry as Dobby pulled on Harry’s sock with shaking hands. “You told me all this had nothing to do with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, remember? Well —"
"It was a clue, sir,” said Dobby, his eyes widening, as though this was obvious. “Was giving you a clue. The Dark Lord, before he changed his name, could be freely named, you see?"
"Right,” said Harry weakly. “Well, I’d better go. There’s a feast, and my friend Hermione should be awake by now. . . ."
"Harry Potter is greater by far than Dobby knew!” he sobbed. “Farewell, Harry Potter!"
"You solved it! You solved it!” or Justin hurrying over from the Hufflepuff table to wring his hand and apologize endlessly for suspecting him, or Hagrid turning up at half past three, cuffing Harry and Ron so hard on the shoulders that they were knocked into their plates of trifle, or his and Ron’s four hundred points for Gryffindor securing the House Cup for the second year running, or Professor McGonagall standing up to tell them all that the exams had been canceled as a school treat (“Oh, no!"
"Shame,” said Ron, helping himself to a jam doughnut. “He was starting to grow on me."
"but we’ve had plenty of practice at that anyway,"
"Ginny — what did you see Percy doing, that he didn’t want you to tell anyone?"
"Oh, that,” said Ginny, giggling. “Well — Percy’s got a girlfriend."
"What?"
"It’s that Ravenclaw prefect, Penelope Clearwater,” said Ginny. “That’s who he was writing to all last summer. He’s been meeting her all over the school in secret. I walked in on them kissing in an empty classroom one day. He was so upset when she was — you know — attacked. You won’t tease him, will you?"
"Wouldn’t dream of it,"
"Definitely not,"
"This is called a telephone number,” he told Ron, scribbling it twice, tearing the parchment in two, and handing it to them. “I told your dad how to use a telephone last summer — he’ll know. Call me at the Dursleys’, okay? I can’t stand another two months with only Dudley to talk to. . . ."
"Your aunt and uncle will be proud, though, won’t they?” said Hermione as they got off the train and joined the crowd thronging toward the enchanted barrier. “When they hear what you did this year?"
"Proud?” said Harry. “Are you crazy? All those times I could’ve died, and I didn’t manage it? They’ll be furious. . . ."
"Witch Burning in the Fourteenth Century Was Completely Pointless — discuss."
"Vernon Dursley speaking."
"HELLO? HELLO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I — WANT — TO — TALK — TO — HARRY — POTTER!"
"WHO IS THIS?” he roared in the direction of the mouthpiece. “WHO ARE YOU?"
"RON — WEASLEY!” Ron bellowed back, as though he and Uncle Vernon were speaking from opposite ends of a football field. “I’M — A — FRIEND — OF — HARRY’S — FROM — SCHOOL —"
"THERE IS NO HARRY POTTER HERE!” he roared, now holding the receiver at arm’s length, as though frightened it might explode. “I DON’T KNOW WHAT SCHOOL YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT! NEVER CONTACT ME AGAIN! DON’T YOU COME NEAR MY FAMILY!"
"HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUMBER TO PEOPLE LIKE — PEOPLE LIKE YOU!"
"We will be spending the gold on a summer holiday in Egypt, where our eldest son, Bill, works as a curse breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank."
"Wow, Hermione!"
"Uh-oh,"
"Ouch!"
". . . The public is warned that Black is armed and extremely dangerous. A special hot line has been set up, and any sighting of Black should be reported immediately."
"No need to tell us he’s no good,” snorted Uncle Vernon, staring over the top of his newspaper at the prisoner. “Look at the state of him, the filthy layabout! Look at his hair!"
"The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries will announce today —"
"Hang on!” barked Uncle Vernon, staring furiously at the reporter. “You didn’t tell us where that maniac’s escaped from! What use is that? Lunatic could be coming up the street right now!"
"When will they learn,” said Uncle Vernon, pounding the table with his large purple fist, “that hanging’s the only way to deal with these people?"
"Very true,"
"I’d better be off in a minute, Petunia. Marge’s train gets in at ten."
"Aunt Marge?” he blurted out. “Sh — she’s not coming here, is she?"
"Aunt"
"Marge’ll be here for a week,” Uncle Vernon snarled, “and while we’re on the subject” — he pointed a fat finger threateningly at Harry — “we need to get a few things straight before I go and collect her."
"Firstly,” growled Uncle Vernon, “you’ll keep a civil tongue in your head when you’re talking to Marge."
"All right,” said Harry bitterly, “if she does when she’s talking to me."
"Secondly,” said Uncle Vernon, acting as though he had not heard Harry’s reply, “as Marge doesn’t know anything about your abnormality, I don’t want any — any funny stuff while she’s here. You behave yourself, got me?"
"I will if she does,"
"And thirdly,” said Uncle Vernon, his mean little eyes now slits in his great purple face, “we’ve told Marge you attend St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys."
"What?"
"And you’ll be sticking to that story, boy, or there’ll be trouble,"
"Well, Petunia,” said Uncle Vernon, getting heavily to his feet, “I’ll be off to the station, then. Want to come along for the ride, Dudders?"
"No,"
"Duddy’s got to make himself smart for his auntie,” said Aunt Petunia, smoothing Dudley’s thick blond hair. “Mummy’s bought him a lovely new bow tie."
"See you in a bit, then,"
"I’m not taking you,"
"Like I wanted to come,” said Harry coldly. “I want to ask you something."
"Third years at Hog — at my school are allowed to visit the village sometimes,"
"So?"
"I need you to sign the permission form,"
"And why should I do that?"
"Well,” said Harry, choosing his words carefully, “it’ll be hard work, pretending to Aunt Marge I go to that St. Whatsits —"
"St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys!"
"Exactly,” said Harry, looking calmly up into Uncle Vernon’s large, purple face. “It’s a lot to remember. I’ll have to make it sound convincing, won’t I? What if I accidentally let something slip?"
"You’ll get the stuffing knocked out of you, won’t you?"
"Knocking the stuffing out of me won’t make Aunt Marge forget what I could tell her,"
"But if you sign my permission form,” Harry went on quickly, “I swear I’ll remember where I’m supposed to go to school, and I’ll act like a Mug — like I’m normal and everything."
"Right,” he snapped finally. “I shall monitor your behavior carefully during Marge’s visit. If, at the end of it, you’ve toed the line and kept to the story, I’ll sign your ruddy form."
"Hedwig,” he said gloomily, “you’re going to have to clear off for a week. Go with Errol. Ron’ll look after you. I’ll write him a note, explaining. And don’t look at me like that” — Hedwig’s large amber eyes were reproachful — “it’s not my fault. It’s the only way I’ll be allowed to visit Hogsmeade with Ron and Hermione."
"Do something about your hair!"
"Get the door!"
"Where’s my Dudders?” roared Aunt Marge. “Where’s my neffy-poo?"
"Petunia!"
"Tea, Marge?” he said. “And what will Ripper take?"
"Ripper can have some tea out of my saucer,"
"Who’s looking after the other dogs, Marge?"
"Oh, I’ve got Colonel Fubster managing them,” boomed Aunt Marge. “He’s retired now, good for him to have something to do. But I couldn’t leave poor old Ripper. He pines if he’s away from me."
"So!” she barked. “Still here, are you?"
"Yes,"
"Don’t you say ‘yes’ in that ungrateful tone,” Aunt Marge growled. “It’s damn good of Vernon and Petunia to keep you. Wouldn’t have done it myself. You’d have gone straight to an orphanage if you’d been dumped on my doorstep."
"Don’t you smirk at me!” boomed Aunt Marge. “I can see you haven’t improved since I last saw you. I hoped school would knock some manners into you.” She took a large gulp of tea, wiped her mustache, and said, “Where is it that you send him, again, Vernon?"
"St. Brutus’s,” said Uncle Vernon promptly. “It’s a first-rate institution for hopeless cases."
"I see,” said Aunt Marge. “Do they use the cane at St. Brutus’s, boy?"
"Er —"
"Yes,” said Harry. Then, feeling he might as well do the thing properly, he added, “All the time."
"Excellent,” said Aunt Marge. “I won’t have this namby-pamby, wishy-washy nonsense about not hitting people who deserve it. A good thrashing is what’s needed in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred. Have you been beaten often?"
"Oh, yeah,” said Harry, “loads of times."
"I still don’t like your tone, boy,” she said. “If you can speak of your beatings in that casual way, they clearly aren’t hitting you hard enough. Petunia, I’d write if I were you. Make it clear that you approve the use of extreme force in this boy’s case."
"Heard the news this morning, Marge? What about that escaped prisoner, eh?"
"You mustn’t blame yourself for the way the boy’s turned out, Vernon,” she said over lunch on the third day. “If there’s something rotten on the inside, there’s nothing anyone can do about it."
"It’s one of the basic rules of breeding,” she said. “You see it all the time with dogs. If there’s something wrong with the bitch, there’ll be something wrong with the pup —"
"Marge!” squealed Aunt Petunia. “Marge, are you all right?"
"Not to worry,” grunted Aunt Marge, mopping her face with her napkin. “Must have squeezed it too hard. Did the same thing at Colonel Fubster’s the other day. No need to fuss, Petunia, I have a very firm grip . . ."
"Can I tempt you, Marge?"
"Just a small one, then,” she chuckled. “A bit more than that . . . and a bit more . . . that’s the ticket."
"Aah,” said Aunt Marge, smacking her lips and putting the empty brandy glass back down. “Excellent nosh, Petunia. It’s normally just a fry-up for me of an evening, with twelve dogs to look after. . . .” She burped richly and patted her great tweed stomach. “Pardon me. But I do like to see a healthy-sized boy,"
"Now, this one here —"
"This one’s got a mean, runty look about him. You get that with dogs. I had Colonel Fubster drown one last year. Ratty little thing it was. Weak. Underbred."
"It all comes down to blood, as I was saying the other day. Bad blood will out. Now, I’m saying nothing against your family, Petunia” — she patted Aunt Petunia’s bony hand with her shovel-like one — “but your sister was a bad egg. They turn up in the best families. Then she ran off with a wastrel and here’s the result right in front of us."
"This Potter,” said Aunt Marge loudly, seizing the brandy bottle and splashing more into her glass and over the tablecloth, “you never told me what he did?"
"He — didn’t work,” said Uncle Vernon, with half a glance at Harry. “Unemployed."
"As I expected!” said Aunt Marge, taking a huge swig of brandy and wiping her chin on her sleeve. “A no-account, good-for-nothing, lazy scrounger who —"
"He was not,"
"MORE BRANDY!” yelled Uncle Vernon, who had gone very white. He emptied the bottle into Aunt Marge’s glass. “You, boy,” he snarled at Harry. “Go to bed, go on —"
"No, Vernon,” hiccuped Aunt Marge, holding up a hand, her tiny bloodshot eyes fixed on Harry’s. “Go on, boy, go on. Proud of your parents, are you? They go and get themselves killed in a car crash (drunk, I expect) —"
"They didn’t die in a car crash!"
"They died in a car crash, you nasty little liar, and left you to be a burden on their decent, hardworking relatives!” screamed Aunt Marge, swelling with fury. “You are an insolent, ungrateful little —"
"MARGE!"
"NOOOOOOO!"
"COME BACK IN HERE!” he bellowed. “COME BACK AND PUT HER RIGHT!"
"She deserved it,” Harry said, breathing very fast. “She deserved what she got. You keep away from me."
"I’m going,” Harry said. “I’ve had enough."
"Lumos,"
"Welcome to the Knight Bus, emergency transport for the stranded witch or wizard. Just stick out your wand hand, step on board, and we can take you anywhere you want to go. My name is Stan Shunpike, and I will be your conductor this eve —"
"What were you doin’ down there?"
"Fell over,"
"’Choo fall over for?"
"I didn’t do it on purpose,"
"’Choo lookin’ at?"
"There was a big black thing,” said Harry, pointing uncertainly into the gap. “Like a dog . . . but massive . . ."
"Woss that on your ’ead?"
"Nothing,"
"Woss your name?"
"Neville Longbottom,” said Harry, saying the first name that came into his head. “So — so this bus,” he went on quickly, hoping to distract Stan, “did you say it goes anywhere?"
"Yep,” said Stan proudly, “anywhere you like, long’s it’s on land. Can’t do nuffink underwater. ’Ere,” he said, looking suspicious again, “you did flag us down, dincha? Stuck out your wand ’and, dincha?"
"Yes,” said Harry quickly. “Listen, how much would it be to get to London?"
"Eleven Sickles,” said Stan, “but for firteen you get ’ot chocolate, and for fifteen you get an ’ot water bottle an’ a toofbrush in the color of your choice."
"Not now, thanks, I’m pickling some slugs"
"You ’ave this one,” Stan whispered, shoving Harry’s trunk under the bed right behind the driver, who was sitting in an armchair in front of the steering wheel. “This is our driver, Ernie Prang. This is Neville Longbottom, Ern."
"Take ’er away, Ern,"
"This is where we was before you flagged us down,” he said. “Where are we, Ern? Somewhere in Wales?"
"Ar,"
"How come the Muggles don’t hear the bus?"
"Them!” said Stan contemptuously. “Don’ listen properly, do they? Don’ look properly either. Never notice nuffink, they don’."
"Best go wake up Madam Marsh, Stan,” said Ern. “We’ll be in Abergavenny in a minute."
"’Ere you go, Madam Marsh,"
"That man!” Harry said, forgetting his troubles for a moment. “He was on the Muggle news!"
"Sirius Black,” he said, nodding. “’Course ’e was on the Muggle news, Neville, where you been?"
"You oughta read the papers more, Neville."
"We are doing all we can to recapture Black,” said the Minister of Magic, Cornelius Fudge, this morning, “and we beg the magical community to remain calm."
"Well, really, I had to, don’t you know,” said an irritable Fudge. “Black is mad. He’s a danger to anyone who crosses him, magic or Muggle. I have the Prime Minister’s assurance that he will not breathe a word of Black’s true identity to anyone. And let’s face it — who’d believe him if he did?"
"Scary-lookin’ fing, inee?"
"He murdered thirteen people,” said Harry, handing the page back to Stan, “with one curse?"
"Yep,” said Stan, “in front of witnesses an’ all. Broad daylight. Big trouble it caused, dinnit, Ern?"
"Ar,"
"Black woz a big supporter of You-Know-’Oo,"
"What, Voldemort?"
"You outta your tree?” yelped Stan. “’Choo say ’is name for?"
"Sorry,” said Harry hastily. “Sorry, I — I forgot —"
"Forgot!” said Stan weakly. “Blimey, my ’eart’s goin’ that fast . . ."
"So — so Black was a supporter of You-Know-Who?"
"Yeah,” said Stan, still rubbing his chest. “Yeah, that’s right. Very close to You-Know-’Oo, they say. Anyway, when little ’Arry Potter got the better of You-Know-’Oo —"
"Anyway, they cornered Black in the middle of a street full of Muggles an’ Black took out ’is wand and ’e blasted ’alf the street apart, an’ a wizard got it, an’ so did a dozen Muggles what got in the way. ’Orrible, eh? An’ you know what Black did then?"
"What?"
"Laughed,” said Stan. “Jus’ stood there an’ laughed. An’ when reinforcements from the Ministry of Magic got there, ’e went wiv ’em quiet as anyfink, still laughing ’is ’ead off. ’Cos ’e’s mad, inee, Ern? Inee mad?"
"If he weren’t when he went to Azkaban, he will be now,” said Ern in his slow voice. “I’d blow meself up before I set foot in that place. Serves him right, mind you . . . after what he did. . . ."
"They ’ad a job coverin’ it up, din’ they, Ern?” Stan said. “’Ole street blown up an’ all them Muggles dead. What was it they said ’ad ’appened, Ern?"
"Gas explosion,"
"An’ now ’e’s out,” said Stan, examining the newspaper picture of Black’s gaunt face again. “Never been a breakout from Azkaban before, ’as there, Ern? Beats me ’ow ’e did it. Frightenin’, eh? Mind, I don’t fancy ’is chances against them Azkaban guards, eh, Ern?"
"Talk about summat else, Stan, there’s a good lad. Them Azkaban guards give me the collywobbles."
"’Ear about that ’Arry Potter? Blew up ’is aunt! We ’ad ’im ’ere on the Knight Bus, di’n’t we, Ern? ’E was tryin’ to run for it. . . ."
"Right then, Neville,” said Stan, clapping his hands, “whereabouts in London?"
"Diagon Alley,"
"Righto,” said Stan. “’Old tight, then . . ."
"Thanks,"
"Well,” said Harry. “’Bye then!"
"There you are, Harry,"
"Blimey! Ern, come ’ere! Come ’ere!"
"What didja call Neville, Minister?"
"Neville?” he repeated, frowning. “This is Harry Potter."
"I knew it!” Stan shouted gleefully. “Ern! Ern! Guess ’oo Neville is, Ern! ’E’s ’Arry Potter! I can see ’is scar!"
"Yes,” said Fudge testily, “well, I’m very glad the Knight Bus picked Harry up, but he and I need to step inside the Leaky Cauldron now . . ."
"You’ve got him, Minister!” said Tom. “Will you be wanting anything? Beer? Brandy?"
"Perhaps a pot of tea,"
"’Ow come you di’n’t tell us ’oo you are, eh, Neville?"
"And a private parlor, please, Tom,"
"’Bye,"
"’Bye, Neville!"
"Sit down, Harry,"
"I am Cornelius Fudge, Harry. The Minister of Magic."
"Well, Harry,” said Fudge, pouring out tea, “you’ve had us all in a right flap, I don’t mind telling you. Running away from your aunt and uncle’s house like that! I’d started to think . . . but you’re safe, and that’s what matters."
"Eat, Harry, you look dead on your feet. Now then . . . You will be pleased to hear that we have dealt with the unfortunate blowing-up of Miss Marjorie Dursley. Two members of the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad were dispatched to Privet Drive a few hours ago. Miss Dursley has been punctured and her memory has been modified. She has no recollection of the incident at all. So that’s that, and no harm done."
"Ah, you’re worrying about the reaction of your aunt and uncle?” said Fudge. “Well, I won’t deny that they are extremely angry, Harry, but they are prepared to take you back next summer as long as you stay at Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays."
"I always stay at Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays,” he said, “and I don’t ever want to go back to Privet Drive."
"Now, now, I’m sure you’ll feel differently once you’ve calmed down,” said Fudge in a worried tone. “They are your family, after all, and I’m sure you are fond of each other — er — very deep down."
"So all that remains,” said Fudge, now buttering himself a second crumpet, “is to decide where you’re going to spend the last three weeks of your vacation. I suggest you take a room here at the Leaky Cauldron and —"
"Hang on,” blurted Harry. “What about my punishment?"
"Punishment?"
"I broke the law!” Harry said. “The Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry!"
"Oh, my dear boy, we’re not going to punish you for a little thing like that!” cried Fudge, waving his crumpet impatiently. “It was an accident! We don’t send people to Azkaban just for blowing up their aunts!"
"Last year, I got an official warning just because a house-elf smashed a pudding in my uncle’s house!” he told Fudge, frowning. “The Ministry of Magic said I’d be expelled from Hogwarts if there was any more magic there!"
"Circumstances change, Harry. . . . We have to take into account . . . in the present climate . . . Surely you don’t want to be expelled?"
"Of course I don’t,"
"Well then, what’s all the fuss about?” laughed Fudge. “Now, have a crumpet, Harry, while I go and see if Tom’s got a room for you."
"Room eleven’s free, Harry,” said Fudge. “I think you’ll be very comfortable. Just one thing, and I’m sure you’ll understand . . . I don’t want you wandering off into Muggle London, all right? Keep to Diagon Alley. And you’re to be back here before dark each night. Sure you’ll understand. Tom will be keeping an eye on you for me."
"Okay,” said Harry slowly, “but why — ?"
"Don’t want to lose you again, do we?” said Fudge with a hearty laugh. “No, no . . . best we know where you are. . . . I mean . . ."
"Well, I’ll be off, plenty to do, you know. . . ."
"Have you had any luck with Black yet?"
"What’s that? Oh, you’ve heard — well, no, not yet, but it’s only a matter of time. The Azkaban guards have never yet failed . . . and they are angrier than I’ve ever seen them."
"So, I’ll say good-bye."
"Er — Minister? Can I ask you something?"
"Certainly,"
"Well, third years at Hogwarts are allowed to visit Hogsmeade, but my aunt and uncle didn’t sign the permission form. D’you think you could — ?"
"Ah,” he said. “No, no, I’m very sorry, Harry, but as I’m not your parent or guardian —"
"But you’re the Minister of Magic,” said Harry eagerly. “If you gave me permission —"
"No, I’m sorry, Harry, but rules are rules,” said Fudge flatly. “Perhaps you’ll be able to visit Hogsmeade next year. In fact, I think it’s best if you don’t . . . yes . . . well, I’ll be off. Enjoy your stay, Harry."
"If you’ll follow me, Mr. Potter,” he said, “I’ve already taken your things up. . . ."
"Hedwig!"
"Very smart owl you’ve got there,” chuckled Tom. “Arrived about five minutes after you did. If there’s anything you need, Mr. Potter, don’t hesitate to ask."
"It’s been a very weird night, Hedwig,"
"It’s a lunascope, old boy — no more messing around with moon charts, see?”) or else discussing the case of Sirius Black (“Personally, I won’t let any of the children out alone until he’s back in Azkaban"
"Just come out — prototype —"
"It’s the fastest broom in the world, isn’t it, Dad?"
"Irish International Side’s just put in an order for seven of these beauties!” the proprietor of the shop told the crowd. “And they’re favorites for the World Cup!"
"Hogwarts?” he said abruptly. “Come to get your new books?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “I need —"
"Get out of the way,"
"Hang on,” said Harry quickly, “I’ve already got one of those."
"Have you?” A look of enormous relief spread over the manager’s face. “Thank heavens for that. I’ve been bitten five times already this morning —"
"Stop it! Stop it!” cried the manager, poking the walking stick through the bars and knocking the books apart. “I’m never stocking them again, never! It’s been bedlam! I thought we’d seen the worst when we bought two hundred copies of the Invisible Book of Invisibility — cost a fortune, and we never found them. . . . Well . . . is there anything else I can help you with?"
"Yes,” said Harry, looking down his booklist, “I need Unfogging the Future by Cassandra Vablatsky."
"Ah, starting Divination, are you?"
"Here you are,” said the manager, who had climbed a set of steps to take down a thick, black-bound book. “Unfogging the Future. Very good guide to all your basic fortune-telling methods — palmistry, crystal balls, bird entrails —"
"Oh, I wouldn’t read that if I were you,” said the manager lightly, looking to see what Harry was staring at. “You’ll start seeing death omens everywhere. It’s enough to frighten anyone to death."
"Anything else?"
"Yes,” said Harry, tearing his eyes away from the dog’s and dazedly consulting his booklist. “Er — I need Intermediate Transfiguration and The Standard Book of Spells, Grade Three."
"It can’t have been a death omen,” he told his reflection defiantly. “I was panicking when I saw that thing in Magnolia Crescent. . . . It was probably just a stray dog. . . ."
"You’re fighting a losing battle there, dear,"
"Harry! HARRY!"
"Finally!” said Ron, grinning at Harry as he sat down. “We went to the Leaky Cauldron, but they said you’d left, and we went to Flourish and Blotts, and Madam Malkin’s, and —"
"I got all my school stuff last week,” Harry explained. “And how come you knew I’m staying at the Leaky Cauldron?"
"Dad,"
"Did you really blow up your aunt, Harry?"
"I didn’t mean to,” said Harry, while Ron roared with laughter. “I just — lost control."
"It’s not funny, Ron,” said Hermione sharply. “Honestly, I’m amazed Harry wasn’t expelled."
"So am I,” admitted Harry. “Forget expelled, I thought I was going to be arrested.” He looked at Ron. “Your dad doesn’t know why Fudge let me off, does he?"
"Probably ’cause it’s you, isn’t it?” shrugged Ron, still chuckling. “Famous Harry Potter and all that. I’d hate to see what the Ministry’d do to me if I blew up an aunt. Mind you, they’d have to dig me up first, because Mum would’ve killed me. Anyway, you can ask Dad yourself this evening. We’re staying at the Leaky Cauldron tonight too! So you can come to King’s Cross with us tomorrow! Hermione’s there as well!"
"Mum and Dad dropped me off this morning with all my Hogwarts things."
"Excellent!” said Harry happily. “So, have you got all your new books and stuff?"
"Look at this,” said Ron, pulling a long thin box out of a bag and opening it. “Brand-new wand. Fourteen inches, willow, containing one unicorn tail-hair. And we’ve got all our books —” He pointed at a large bag under his chair. “What about those Monster Books, eh? The assistant nearly cried when we said we wanted two."
"What’s all that, Hermione?"
"Well, I’m taking more new subjects than you, aren’t I?” said Hermione. “Those are my books for Arithmancy, Care of Magical Creatures, Divination, Study of Ancient Runes, Muggle Studies —"
"What are you doing Muggle Studies for?” said Ron, rolling his eyes at Harry. “You’re Muggle-born! Your mum and dad are Muggles! You already know all about Muggles!"
"But it’ll be fascinating to study them from the Wizarding point of view,"
"Are you planning to eat or sleep at all this year, Hermione?"
"I’ve still got ten Galleons,” she said, checking her purse. “It’s my birthday in September, and Mum and Dad gave me some money to get myself an early birthday present."
"How about a nice book?"
"No, I don’t think so,” said Hermione composedly. “I really want an owl. I mean, Harry’s got Hedwig and you’ve got Errol —"
"I haven’t,” said Ron. “Errol’s a family owl. All I’ve got is Scabbers.” He pulled his pet rat out of his pocket. “And I want to get him checked over,” he added, placing Scabbers on the table in front of them. “I don’t think Egypt agreed with him."
"There’s a magical creature shop just over there,” said Harry, who knew Diagon Alley very well by now. “You could see if they’ve got anything for Scabbers, and Hermione can get her owl."
"It’s my rat,” he told the witch. “He’s been a bit off-color ever since I brought him back from Egypt."
"Bang him on the counter,"
"Hm,” said the witch, picking up Scabbers. “How old is this rat?"
"Dunno,” said Ron. “Quite old. He used to belong to my brother."
"What powers does he have?"
"Er —"
"He’s been through the mill, this one,"
"He was like that when Percy gave him to me,"
"An ordinary common or garden rat like this can’t be expected to live longer than three years or so,” said the witch. “Now, if you were looking for something a bit more hard-wearing, you might like one of these —"
"Show-offs."
"Well, if you don’t want a replacement, you can try this rat tonic,"
"Okay,” said Ron. “How much — OUCH!"
"NO, CROOKSHANKS, NO!"
"Scabbers!"
"What was that?"
"It was either a very big cat or quite a small tiger,"
"Where’s Hermione?"
"Probably getting her owl —"
"You bought that monster?"
"He’s gorgeous, isn’t he?"
"Hermione, that thing nearly scalped me!"
"He didn’t mean to, did you, Crookshanks?"
"And what about Scabbers?” said Ron, pointing at the lump in his chest pocket. “He needs rest and relaxation! How’s he going to get it with that thing around?"
"That reminds me, you forgot your rat tonic,” said Hermione, slapping the small red bottle into Ron’s hand. “And stop worrying, Crookshanks will be sleeping in my dormitory and Scabbers in yours, what’s the problem? Poor Crookshanks, that witch said he’d been in there for ages; no one wanted him."
"I wonder why,"
"Harry!” he said, smiling as he looked up. “How are you?"
"Fine, thanks,"
"They still haven’t caught him, then?"
"No,” said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely grave. “They’ve pulled us all off our regular jobs at the Ministry to try and find him, but no luck so far."
"Would we get a reward if we caught him?” asked Ron. “It’d be good to get some more money —"
"Don’t be ridiculous, Ron,” said Mr. Weasley, who on closer inspection looked very strained. “Black’s not going to be caught by a thirteen-year-old wizard. It’s the Azkaban guards who’ll get him back, you mark my words."
"Hello” without looking at him. Percy, however, held out his hand solemnly as though he and Harry had never met and said, “Harry. How nice to see you."
"Hello, Percy,"
"I hope you’re well?"
"Very well, thanks —"
"Harry!” said Fred, elbowing Percy out of the way and bowing deeply. “Simply splendid to see you, old boy —"
"Marvelous,” said George, pushing Fred aside and seizing Harry’s hand in turn. “Absolutely spiffing."
"That’s enough, now,"
"Mum!” said Fred as though he’d only just spotted her and seizing her hand too. “How really corking to see you —"
"I said, that’s enough,” said Mrs. Weasley, depositing her shopping in an empty chair. “Hello, Harry, dear. I suppose you’ve heard our exciting news?” She pointed to the brand-new silver badge on Percy’s chest. “Second Head Boy in the family!"
"And last,"
"I don’t doubt that,” said Mrs. Weasley, frowning suddenly. “I notice they haven’t made you two prefects."
"What do we want to be prefects for?” said George, looking revolted at the very idea. “It’d take all the fun out of life."
"You want to set a better example for your sister!"
"Ginny’s got other brothers to set her an example, Mother,” said Percy loftily. “I’m going up to change for dinner. . . ."
"We tried to shut him in a pyramid,” he told Harry. “But Mum spotted us."
"How’re we getting to King’s Cross tomorrow, Dad?"
"The Ministry’s providing a couple of cars,"
"Why?"
"It’s because of you, Perce,” said George seriously. “And there’ll be little flags on the hoods, with HB on them —"
"— for Humongous Bighead,"
"Why are the Ministry providing cars, Father?"
"Well, as we haven’t got one anymore,” said Mr. Weasley, “— and as I work there, they’re doing me a favor —"
"Good thing, too,” said Mrs. Weasley briskly. “Do you realize how much luggage you’ve all got between you? A nice sight you’d be on the Muggle Underground. . . . You are all packed, aren’t you?"
"Ron hasn’t put all his new things in his trunk yet,” said Percy, in a long-suffering voice. “He’s dumped them on my bed."
"You’d better go and pack properly, Ron, because we won’t have much time in the morning,"
"It was here, on the bedside table, I took it off for polishing —"
"I haven’t touched it, all right?"
"What’s up?"
"My Head Boy badge is gone,"
"So’s Scabbers’s rat tonic,” said Ron, throwing things out of his trunk to look. “I think I might’ve left it in the bar —"
"You’re not going anywhere till you’ve found my badge!"
"I’ll get Scabbers’s stuff, I’m packed,"
". . . makes no sense not to tell him,” Mr. Weasley was saying heatedly. “Harry’s got a right to know. I’ve tried to tell Fudge, but he insists on treating Harry like a child. He’s thirteen years old and —"
"Arthur, the truth would terrify him!” said Mrs. Weasley shrilly. “Do you really want to send Harry back to school with that hanging over him? For heaven’s sake, he’s happy not knowing!"
"I don’t want to make him miserable, I want to put him on his guard!” retorted Mr. Weasley. “You know what Harry and Ron are like, wandering off by themselves — they’ve even ended up in the Forbidden Forest! But Harry mustn’t do that this year! When I think what could have happened to him that night he ran away from home! If the Knight Bus hadn’t picked him up, I’m prepared to bet he would have been dead before the Ministry found him."
"But he’s not dead, he’s fine, so what’s the point —"
"Molly, they say Sirius Black’s mad, and maybe he is, but he was clever enough to escape from Azkaban, and that’s supposed to be impossible. It’s been a month, and no one’s seen hide nor hair of him, and I don’t care what Fudge keeps telling the Daily Prophet, we’re no nearer catching Black than inventing self-spelling wands. The only thing we know for sure is what Black’s after —"
"But Harry will be perfectly safe at Hogwarts."
"We thought Azkaban was perfectly safe. If Black can break out of Azkaban, he can break into Hogwarts."
"But no one’s really sure that Black’s after Harry —"
"Molly, how many times do I have to tell you? They didn’t report it in the press because Fudge wanted it kept quiet, but Fudge went out to Azkaban the night Black escaped. The guards told Fudge that Black’s been talking in his sleep for a while now. Always the same words: ‘He’s at Hogwarts . . . he’s at Hogwarts.’ Black is deranged, Molly, and he wants Harry dead. If you ask me, he thinks murdering Harry will bring You-Know-Who back to power. Black lost everything the night Harry stopped You-Know-Who, and he’s had twelve years alone in Azkaban to brood on that. . . ."
"Well, Arthur, you must do what you think is right. But you’re forgetting Albus Dumbledore. I don’t think anything could hurt Harry at Hogwarts while Dumbledore’s headmaster. I suppose he knows about all this?"
"Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he minds the Azkaban guards stationing themselves around the entrances to the school grounds. He wasn’t happy about it, but he agreed."
"Not happy? Why shouldn’t he be happy, if they’re there to catch Black?"
"Dumbledore isn’t fond of the Azkaban guards,” said Mr. Weasley heavily. “Nor am I, if it comes to that . . . but when you’re dealing with a wizard like Black, you sometimes have to join forces with those you’d rather avoid."
"If they save Harry —"
"— then I will never say another word against them,” said Mr. Weasley wearily. “It’s late, Molly, we’d better go up. . . ."
"We’ve got it,” Fred whispered to Harry. “We’ve been improving it."
"I’m not going to be murdered,"
"That’s the spirit, dear,"
"The sooner we get on the train, the better,” he said. “At least I can get away from Percy at Hogwarts. Now he’s accusing me of dripping tea on his photo of Penelope Clearwater. You know,” Ron grimaced, “his girlfriend. She’s hidden her face under the frame because her nose has gone all blotchy. . . ."
"I’ve got something to tell you,"
"What were you saying?"
"Later,"
"It’s all right, Crookshanks,” Hermione cooed through the wickerwork. “I’ll let you out on the train."
"You won’t,” snapped Ron. “What about poor Scabbers, eh?"
"They’re here,” he said. “Harry, come on."
"In you get, Harry,"
"Right then,” he said, glancing around them. “Let’s do this in pairs, as there are so many of us. I’ll go through first with Harry."
"Ah, there’s Penelope!"
"Do take care, won’t you, Harry?” she said as she straightened up, her eyes oddly bright. Then she opened her enormous handbag and said, “I’ve made you all sandwiches. . . . Here you are, Ron . . . no, they’re not corned beef. . . . Fred? Where’s Fred? Here you are, dear. . . ."
"Harry,” said Mr. Weasley quietly, “come over here a moment."
"There’s something I’ve got to tell you before you leave —"
"It’s all right, Mr. Weasley,” said Harry. “I already know."
"You know? How could you know?"
"I — er — I heard you and Mrs. Weasley talking last night. I couldn’t help hearing,” Harry added quickly. “Sorry —"
"That’s not the way I’d have chosen for you to find out,"
"No — honestly, it’s okay. This way, you haven’t broken your word to Fudge and I know what’s going on."
"Harry, you must be very scared —"
"I’m not,” said Harry sincerely. “Really,” he added, because Mr. Weasley was looking disbelieving. “I’m not trying to be a hero, but seriously, Sirius Black can’t be worse than Voldemort, can he?"
"Harry, I knew you were, well, made of stronger stuff than Fudge seems to think, and I’m obviously pleased that you’re not scared, but —"
"Arthur!” called Mrs. Weasley, who was now shepherding the rest onto the train. “Arthur, what are you doing? It’s about to go!"
"He’s coming, Molly!” said Mr. Weasley, but he turned back to Harry and kept talking in a lower and more hurried voice. “Listen, I want you to give me your word —"
"— that I’ll be a good boy and stay in the castle?"
"Not entirely,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked more serious than Harry had ever seen him. “Harry, swear to me you won’t go looking for Black."
"What?"
"Promise me, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, talking more quickly still, “that whatever happens —"
"Why would I go looking for someone I know wants to kill me?"
"Swear to me that whatever you might hear —"
"Arthur, quickly!"
"I need to talk to you in private,"
"Go away, Ginny,"
"Oh, that’s nice,"
"Who d’you reckon he is?"
"Professor R. J. Lupin,"
"How d’you know that?"
"It’s on his case,"
"Wonder what he teaches?"
"That’s obvious,” whispered Hermione. “There’s only one vacancy, isn’t there? Defense Against the Dark Arts."
"Well, I hope he’s up to it,” said Ron doubtfully. “He looks like one good hex would finish him off, doesn’t he? Anyway . . .” He turned to Harry. “What were you going to tell us?"
"Sirius Black escaped to come after you? Oh, Harry . . . you’ll have to be really, really careful. Don’t go looking for trouble, Harry —"
"I don’t go looking for trouble,” said Harry, nettled. “Trouble usually finds me."
"How thick would Harry have to be, to go looking for a nutter who wants to kill him?"
"No one knows how he got out of Azkaban,” said Ron uncomfortably. “No one’s ever done it before. And he was a top-security prisoner too."
"But they’ll catch him, won’t they?” said Hermione earnestly. “I mean, they’ve got all the Muggles looking out for him too. . . ."
"What’s that noise?"
"It’s coming from your trunk, Harry,"
"Is that a Sneakoscope?"
"Yeah . . . mind you, it’s a very cheap one,” Ron said. “It went haywire just as I was tying it to Errol’s leg to send it to Harry."
"Were you doing anything untrustworthy at the time?"
"No! Well . . . I wasn’t supposed to be using Errol. You know he’s not really up to long journeys . . . but how else was I supposed to get Harry’s present to him?"
"Stick it back in the trunk,” Harry advised as the Sneakoscope whistled piercingly, “or it’ll wake him up."
"We could get it checked in Hogsmeade,” said Ron, sitting back down. “They sell that sort of thing in Dervish and Banges, magical instruments and stuff. Fred and George told me."
"Do you know much about Hogsmeade?” asked Hermione keenly. “I’ve read it’s the only entirely non-Muggle settlement in Britain —"
"Yeah, I think it is,” said Ron in an offhand sort of way, “but that’s not why I want to go. I just want to get inside Honeydukes!"
"What’s that?"
"It’s this sweetshop,” said Ron, a dreamy look coming over his face, “where they’ve got everything. . . . Pepper Imps — they make you smoke at the mouth — and great fat Chocoballs full of strawberry mousse and clotted cream, and really excellent sugar quills, which you can suck in class and just look like you’re thinking what to write next —"
"But Hogsmeade’s a very interesting place, isn’t it?” Hermione pressed on eagerly. “In Sites of Historical Sorcery it says the inn was the headquarters for the 1612 goblin rebellion, and the Shrieking Shack’s supposed to be the most severely haunted building in Britain —"
"— and massive sherbet balls that make you levitate a few inches off the ground while you’re sucking them,"
"Won’t it be nice to get out of school for a bit and explore Hogsmeade?"
"’Spect it will,” said Harry heavily. “You’ll have to tell me when you’ve found out."
"What d’you mean?"
"I can’t go. The Dursleys didn’t sign my permission form, and Fudge wouldn’t either."
"You’re not allowed to come? But — no way — McGonagall or someone will give you permission —"
"— or we can ask Fred and George, they know every secret passage out of the castle —"
"Ron!” said Hermione sharply. “I don’t think Harry should be sneaking out of school with Black on the loose —"
"Yeah, I expect that’s what McGonagall will say when I ask for permission,"
"But if we’re with him,” said Ron spiritedly to Hermione, “Black wouldn’t dare —"
"Oh, Ron, don’t talk rubbish,” snapped Hermione. “Black’s already murdered a whole bunch of people in the middle of a crowded street. Do you really think he’s going to worry about attacking Harry just because we’re there?"
"Don’t let that thing out!"
"Get out of here!"
"Ron, don’t!"
"D’you think we should wake him up?” Ron asked awkwardly, nodding toward Professor Lupin. “He looks like he could do with some food."
"Er — Professor?” she said. “Excuse me — Professor?"
"Don’t worry, dear,” said the witch as she handed Harry a large stack of Cauldron Cakes. “If he’s hungry when he wakes, I’ll be up front with the driver."
"I suppose he is asleep?” said Ron quietly as the witch slid the compartment door closed. “I mean — he hasn’t died, has he?"
"No, no, he’s breathing,"
"Well, look who it is,” said Malfoy in his usual lazy drawl, pulling open the compartment door. “Potty and the Weasel."
"I heard your father finally got his hands on some gold this summer, Weasley,” said Malfoy. “Did your mother die of shock?"
"Who’s that?"
"New teacher,” said Harry, who got to his feet, too, in case he needed to hold Ron back. “What were you saying, Malfoy?"
"C’mon,"
"I’m not going to take any crap from Malfoy this year,” he said angrily. “I mean it. If he makes one more crack about my family, I’m going to get hold of his head and —"
"Ron,” hissed Hermione, pointing at Professor Lupin, “be careful . . ."
"We must be nearly there,"
"Great,” said Ron, getting up and walking carefully past Professor Lupin to try and see outside. “I’m starving. I want to get to the feast. . . ."
"We can’t be there yet,"
"So why’re we stopping?"
"What’s going on?"
"Ouch!” gasped Hermione. “Ron, that was my foot!"
"D’you think we’ve broken down?"
"Dunno . . ."
"There’s something moving out there,” Ron said. “I think people are coming aboard. . . ."
"Sorry — d’you know what’s going on? — Ouch — sorry —"
"Hullo, Neville,"
"Harry? Is that you? What’s happening?"
"No idea — sit down —"
"I’m going to go and ask the driver what’s going on,"
"Who’s that?"
"Who’s that?"
"Ginny?"
"Hermione?"
"What are you doing?"
"I was looking for Ron —"
"Come in and sit down —"
"Not here!” said Harry hurriedly. “I’m here!"
"Ouch!"
"Quiet!"
"Stay where you are,"
"Harry! Harry! Are you all right?"
"W-what?"
"Are you okay?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, looking quickly toward the door. The hooded creature had vanished. “What happened? Where’s that — that thing? Who screamed?"
"No one screamed,"
"But I heard screaming —"
"Here,” he said to Harry, handing him a particularly large piece. “Eat it. It’ll help."
"What was that thing?"
"A dementor,” said Lupin, who was now giving chocolate to everyone else. “One of the dementors of Azkaban."
"Eat,” he repeated. “It’ll help. I need to speak to the driver, excuse me . . ."
"Are you sure you’re okay, Harry?"
"I don’t get it. . . . What happened?"
"Well — that thing — the dementor — stood there and looked around (I mean, I think it did, I couldn’t see its face) — and you — you —"
"I thought you were having a fit or something,” said Ron, who still looked scared. “You went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and started twitching —"
"And Professor Lupin stepped over you, and walked toward the dementor, and pulled out his wand,” said Hermione, “and he said, ‘None of us is hiding Sirius Black under our cloaks. Go.’ But the dementor didn’t move, so Lupin muttered something, and a silvery thing shot out of his wand at it, and it turned around and sort of glided away. . . ."
"It was horrible,” said Neville, in a higher voice than usual. “Did you feel how cold it got when it came in?"
"I felt weird,” said Ron, shifting his shoulders uncomfortably. “Like I’d never be cheerful again. . . ."
"But didn’t any of you — fall off your seats?"
"No,” said Ron, looking anxiously at Harry again. “Ginny was shaking like mad, though. . . ."
"I haven’t poisoned that chocolate, you know. . . ."
"We’ll be at Hogwarts in ten minutes,” said Professor Lupin. “Are you all right, Harry?"
"Fine,"
"Firs’ years this way!"
"All righ’, you three?"
"You fainted, Potter? Is Longbottom telling the truth? You actually fainted?"
"Shove off, Malfoy,"
"Did you faint as well, Weasley?” said Malfoy loudly. “Did the scary old dementor frighten you too, Weasley?"
"Is there a problem?"
"Oh, no — er — Professor,"
"Potter! Granger! I want to see you both!"
"There’s no need to look so worried — I just want a word in my office,” she told them. “Move along there, Weasley."
"Professor Lupin sent an owl ahead to say that you were taken ill on the train, Potter."
"I’m fine,” he said, “I don’t need anything —"
"Oh, it’s you, is it?” said Madam Pomfrey, ignoring this and bending down to stare closely at him. “I suppose you’ve been doing something dangerous again?"
"It was a dementor, Poppy,"
"Setting dementors around a school,” she muttered, pushing back Harry’s hair and feeling his forehead. “He won’t be the last one who collapses. Yes, he’s all clammy. Terrible things, they are, and the effect they have on people who are already delicate —"
"I’m not delicate!"
"Of course you’re not,"
"What does he need?” said Professor McGonagall crisply. “Bed rest? Should he perhaps spend tonight in the hospital wing?"
"I’m fine!"
"Well, he should have some chocolate, at the very least,"
"I’ve already had some,” said Harry. “Professor Lupin gave me some. He gave it to all of us."
"Did he, now?” said Madam Pomfrey approvingly. “So we’ve finally got a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher who knows his remedies?"
"Are you sure you feel all right, Potter?"
"Yes,"
"Very well. Kindly wait outside while I have a quick word with Miss Granger about her course schedule, then we can go down to the feast together."
"Oh,” said Hermione softly, “we’ve missed the Sorting!"
"What was all that about?"
"Welcome!” said Dumbledore, the candlelight shimmering on his beard. “Welcome to another year at Hogwarts! I have a few things to say to you all, and as one of them is very serious, I think it best to get it out of the way before you become befuddled by our excellent feast. . . ."
"As you will all be aware after their search of the Hogwarts Express, our school is presently playing host to some of the dementors of Azkaban, who are here on Ministry of Magic business."
"They are stationed at every entrance to the grounds,” Dumbledore continued, “and while they are with us, I must make it plain that nobody is to leave school without permission. Dementors are not to be fooled by tricks or disguises — or even Invisibility Cloaks,” he added blandly, and Harry and Ron glanced at each other. “It is not in the nature of a dementor to understand pleading or excuses. I therefore warn each and every one of you to give them no reason to harm you. I look to the prefects, and our new Head Boy and Girl, to make sure that no student runs afoul of the dementors,"
"On a happier note,"
"First, Professor Lupin, who has kindly consented to fill the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."
"Look at Snape!"
"As to our second new appointment,” Dumbledore continued as the lukewarm applause for Professor Lupin died away. “Well, I am sorry to tell you that Professor Kettleburn, our Care of Magical Creatures teacher, retired at the end of last year in order to enjoy more time with his remaining limbs. However, I am delighted to say that his place will be filled by none other than Rubeus Hagrid, who has agreed to take on this teaching job in addition to his gamekeeping duties."
"We should’ve known!” Ron roared, pounding the table. “Who else would have assigned us a biting book?"
"Well, I think that’s everything of importance,” said Dumbledore. “Let the feast begin!"
"Congratulations, Hagrid!"
"All down ter you three,” said Hagrid, wiping his shining face on his napkin as he looked up at them. “Can’ believe it . . . great man, Dumbledore . . . came straight down to me hut after Professor Kettleburn said he’d had enough. . . . It’s what I always wanted. . . ."
"Password?"
"Coming through, coming through!” Percy called from behind the crowd. “The new password’s ‘Fortuna Major’!"
"Oh no,"
"Ignore him,” said Hermione, who was right behind Harry. “Just ignore him, it’s not worth it. . . ."
"Hey, Potter!” shrieked Pansy Parkinson, a Slytherin girl with a face like a pug. “Potter! The dementors are coming, Potter! Woooooooo!"
"New third-year course schedules,” said George, passing them over. “What’s up with you, Harry?"
"Malfoy,"
"That little git,” he said calmly. “He wasn’t so cocky last night when the dementors were down at our end of the train. Came running into our compartment, didn’t he, Fred?"
"Nearly wet himself,"
"I wasn’t too happy myself,” said George. “They’re horrible things, those dementors. . . ."
"Sort of freeze your insides, don’t they?"
"You didn’t pass out, though, did you?"
"Forget it, Harry,” said George bracingly. “Dad had to go out to Azkaban one time, remember, Fred? And he said it was the worst place he’d ever been, he came back all weak and shaking. . . . They suck the happiness out of a place, dementors. Most of the prisoners go mad in there."
"Anyway, we’ll see how happy Malfoy looks after our first Quidditch match,” said Fred. “Gryffindor versus Slytherin, first game of the season, remember?"
"Ooh, good, we’re starting some new subjects today,"
"Hermione,” said Ron, frowning as he looked over her shoulder, “they’ve messed up your schedule. Look — they’ve got you down for about ten subjects a day. There isn’t enough time."
"I’ll manage. I’ve fixed it all with Professor McGonagall."
"But look,” said Ron, laughing, “see this morning? Nine o’clock, Divination. And underneath, nine o’clock, Muggle Studies. And” — Ron leaned closer to the schedule, disbelieving — “look — underneath that, Arithmancy, nine o’clock. I mean, I know you’re good, Hermione, but no one’s that good. How’re you supposed to be in three classes at once?"
"Don’t be silly,” said Hermione shortly. “Of course I won’t be in three classes at once."
"Well, then —"
"Pass the marmalade,"
"But —"
"Oh, Ron, what’s it to you if my schedule’s a bit full?” Hermione snapped. “I told you, I’ve fixed it all with Professor McGonagall."
"All righ’?” he said eagerly, pausing on the way to the staff table. “Yer in my firs’ ever lesson! Right after lunch! Bin up since five gettin’ everythin’ ready. . . . Hope it’s okay. . . . Me, a teacher . . . hones’ly. . . ."
"Wonder what he’s been getting ready?"
"We’d better go, look, Divination’s at the top of North Tower. It’ll take us ten minutes to get there. . . ."
"There’s — got — to — be — a — shortcut,"
"I think it’s this way,"
"Can’t be,” said Ron. “That’s south, look, you can see a bit of the lake out of the window . . ."
"Aha!” he yelled, seeing Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “What villains are these, that trespass upon my private lands! Come to scorn at my fall, perchance? Draw, you knaves, you dogs!"
"Are you all right?"
"Get back, you scurvy braggart! Back, you rogue!"
"Listen,” said Harry, taking advantage of the knight’s exhaustion, “we’re looking for the North Tower. You don’t know the way, do you?"
"A quest!” The knight’s rage seemed to vanish instantly. He clanked to his feet and shouted, “Come follow me, dear friends, and we shall find our goal, or else shall perish bravely in the charge!"
"On foot then, good sirs and gentle lady! On! On!"
"Be of stout heart, the worst is yet to come!"
"Farewell!” cried the knight, popping his head into a painting of some sinister-looking monks. “Farewell, my comrades-in-arms! If ever you have need of noble heart and steely sinew, call upon Sir Cadogan!"
"Yeah, we’ll call you,” muttered Ron as the knight disappeared, “if we ever need someone mental."
"‘Sybill Trelawney, Divination teacher,’” Harry read. “How’re we supposed to get up there?"
"After you,"
"Where is she?"
"Welcome,” it said. “How nice to see you in the physical world at last."
"Sit, my children, sit,"
"Welcome to Divination,” said Professor Trelawney, who had seated herself in a winged armchair in front of the fire. “My name is Professor Trelawney. You may not have seen me before. I find that descending too often into the hustle and bustle of the main school clouds my Inner Eye."
"So you have chosen to study Divination, the most difficult of all magical arts. I must warn you at the outset that if you do not have the Sight, there is very little I will be able to teach you. Books can take you only so far in this field. . . ."
"Many witches and wizards, talented though they are in the area of loud bangs and smells and sudden disappearings, are yet unable to penetrate the veiled mysteries of the future,” Professor Trelawney went on, her enormous, gleaming eyes moving from face to nervous face. “It is a Gift granted to few. You, boy,” she said suddenly to Neville, who almost toppled off his pouf. “Is your grandmother well?"
"I think so,"
"I wouldn’t be so sure if I were you, dear,” said Professor Trelawney, the firelight glinting on her long emerald earrings. Neville gulped. Professor Trelawney continued placidly. “We will be covering the basic methods of Divination this year. The first term will be devoted to reading the tea leaves. Next term we shall progress to palmistry. By the way, my dear,” she shot suddenly at Parvati Patil, “beware a red-haired man."
"In the second term,” Professor Trelawney went on, “we shall progress to the crystal ball — if we have finished with fire omens, that is. Unfortunately, classes will be disrupted in February by a nasty bout of flu. I myself will lose my voice. And around Easter, one of our number will leave us forever."
"I wonder, dear,” she said to Lavender Brown, who was nearest and shrank back in her chair, “if you could pass me the largest silver teapot?"
"Thank you, my dear. Incidentally, that thing you are dreading — it will happen on Friday the sixteenth of October."
"Now, I want you all to divide into pairs. Collect a teacup from the shelf, come to me, and I will fill it. Then sit down and drink, drink until only the dregs remain. Swill these around the cup three times with the left hand, then turn the cup upside down on its saucer, wait for the last of the tea to drain away, then give your cup to your partner to read. You will interpret the patterns using pages five and six of Unfogging the Future. I shall move among you, helping and instructing. Oh, and dear” — she caught Neville by the arm as he made to stand up — “after you’ve broken your first cup, would you be so kind as to select one of the blue-patterned ones? I’m rather attached to the pink."
"One of the blue ones, then, dear, if you wouldn’t mind . . . thank you. . . ."
"Right,” said Ron as they both opened their books at pages five and six. “What can you see in mine?"
"A load of soggy brown stuff,"
"Broaden your minds, my dears, and allow your eyes to see past the mundane!"
"Right, you’ve got a crooked sort of cross . . .” He consulted Unfogging the Future. “That means you’re going to have ‘trials and suffering’ — sorry about that — but there’s a thing that could be the sun . . . hang on . . . that means ‘great happiness’ . . . so you’re going to suffer but be very happy. . . ."
"You need your Inner Eye tested, if you ask me,"
"My turn . . .” Ron peered into Harry’s teacup, his forehead wrinkled with effort. “There’s a blob a bit like a bowler hat,” he said. “Maybe you’re going to work for the Ministry of Magic. . . ."
"But this way it looks more like an acorn. . . . What’s that?” He scanned his copy of Unfogging the Future. “‘A windfall, unexpected gold.’ Excellent, you can lend me some . . . and there’s a thing here,” he turned the cup again, “that looks like an animal . . . yeah, if that was its head . . . it looks like a hippo . . . no, a sheep . . ."
"Let me see that, my dear,"
"The falcon . . . my dear, you have a deadly enemy."
"But everyone knows that,"
"Well, they do,” said Hermione. “Everybody knows about Harry and You-Know-Who."
"The club . . . an attack. Dear, dear, this is not a happy cup. . . ."
"I thought that was a bowler hat,"
"The skull . . . danger in your path, my dear. . . ."
"My dear boy . . . my poor, dear boy . . . no . . . it is kinder not to say . . . no . . . don’t ask me. . . ."
"What is it, Professor?"
"My dear,” Professor Trelawney’s huge eyes opened dramatically, “you have the Grim."
"The what?"
"The Grim, my dear, the Grim!” cried Professor Trelawney, who looked shocked that Harry hadn’t understood. “The giant, spectral dog that haunts churchyards! My dear boy, it is an omen — the worst omen — of death!"
"I don’t think it looks like a Grim,"
"You’ll forgive me for saying so, my dear, but I perceive very little aura around you. Very little receptivity to the resonances of the future."
"It looks like a Grim if you do this,” he said, with his eyes almost shut, “but it looks more like a donkey from here,"
"When you’ve all finished deciding whether I’m going to die or not!"
"I think we will leave the lesson here for today,” said Professor Trelawney in her mistiest voice. “Yes . . . please pack away your things. . . ."
"Until we meet again,” said Professor Trelawney faintly, “fair fortune be yours. Oh, and dear” — she pointed at Neville — “you’ll be late next time, so mind you work extra-hard to catch up."
"Really, what has got into you all today?” said Professor McGonagall, turning back into herself with a faint pop, and staring around at them all. “Not that it matters, but that’s the first time my transformation’s not got applause from a class."
"Please, Professor, we’ve just had our first Divination class, and we were reading the tea leaves, and —"
"Ah, of course,” said Professor McGonagall, suddenly frowning. “There is no need to say any more, Miss Granger. Tell me, which of you will be dying this year?"
"Me,"
"I see,” said Professor McGonagall, fixing Harry with her beady eyes. “Then you should know, Potter, that Sybill Trelawney has predicted the death of one student a year since she arrived at this school. None of them has died yet. Seeing death omens is her favorite way of greeting a new class. If it were not for the fact that I never speak ill of my colleagues —"
"Divination is one of the most imprecise branches of magic. I shall not conceal from you that I have very little patience with it. True Seers are very rare, and Professor Trelawney —"
"You look in excellent health to me, Potter, so you will excuse me if I don’t let you off homework today. I assure you that if you die, you need not hand it in."
"But what about Neville’s cup?"
"Ron, cheer up,” said Hermione, pushing a dish of stew toward him. “You heard what Professor McGonagall said."
"Harry,” he said, in a low, serious voice, “you haven’t seen a great black dog anywhere, have you?"
"Yeah, I have,” said Harry. “I saw one the night I left the Dursleys’."
"Probably a stray,"
"Hermione, if Harry’s seen a Grim, that’s — that’s bad,” he said. “My — my uncle Bilius saw one and — and he died twenty-four hours later!"
"Coincidence,"
"You don’t know what you’re talking about!” said Ron, starting to get angry. “Grims scare the living daylights out of most wizards!"
"There you are, then,” said Hermione in a superior tone. “They see the Grim and die of fright. The Grim’s not an omen, it’s the cause of death! And Harry’s still with us because he’s not stupid enough to see one and think, right, well, I’d better kick the bucket then!"
"I think Divination seems very woolly,” she said, searching for her page. “A lot of guesswork, if you ask me."
"There was nothing woolly about the Grim in that cup!"
"You didn’t seem quite so confident when you were telling Harry it was a sheep,"
"Professor Trelawney said you didn’t have the right aura! You just don’t like being bad at something for a change!"
"If being good at Divination means I have to pretend to see death omens in a lump of tea leaves, I’m not sure I’ll be studying it much longer! That lesson was absolute rubbish compared with my Arithmancy class!"
"What’s she talking about?” he said to Harry. “She hasn’t been to an Arithmancy class yet."
"C’mon, now, get a move on!” he called as the class approached. “Got a real treat for yeh today! Great lesson comin’ up! Everyone here? Right, follow me!"
"Everyone gather ’round the fence here!” he called. “That’s it — make sure yeh can see — now, firs’ thing yeh’ll want ter do is open yer books —"
"How?"
"Eh?"
"How do we open our books?"
"Hasn’ — hasn’ anyone bin able ter open their books?"
"Yeh’ve got ter stroke ’em,” said Hagrid, as though this was the most obvious thing in the world. “Look —"
"Oh, how silly we’ve all been!” Malfoy sneered. “We should have stroked them! Why didn’t we guess!"
"I — I thought they were funny,"
"Oh, tremendously funny!” said Malfoy. “Really witty, giving us books that try and rip our hands off!"
"Shut up, Malfoy,"
"Righ’ then,” said Hagrid, who seemed to have lost his thread, “so — so yeh’ve got yer books an’ — an’ — now yeh need the Magical Creatures. Yeah. So I’ll go an’ get ’em. Hang on . . ."
"God, this place is going to the dogs,” said Malfoy loudly. “That oaf teaching classes, my father’ll have a fit when I tell him —"
"Shut up, Malfoy,"
"Careful, Potter, there’s a dementor behind you —"
"Oooooooh!"
"Gee up, there!"
"Hippogriffs!” Hagrid roared happily, waving a hand at them. “Beau’iful, aren’ they?"
"So,” said Hagrid, rubbing his hands together and beaming around, “if yeh wan’ ter come a bit nearer —"
"Now, firs’ thing yeh gotta know abou’ hippogriffs is, they’re proud,” said Hagrid. “Easily offended, hippogriffs are. Don’t never insult one, ’cause it might be the last thing yeh do."
"Yeh always wait fer the hippogriff ter make the firs’ move,"
"Right — who wants ter go first?"
"No one?"
"I’ll do it,"
"Oooh, no, Harry, remember your tea leaves!"
"Good man, Harry!” roared Hagrid. “Right then — let’s see how yeh get on with Buckbeak."
"Easy, now, Harry,” said Hagrid quietly. “Yeh’ve got eye contact, now try not ter blink. . . . Hippogriffs don’ trust yeh if yeh blink too much. . . ."
"Tha’s it,” said Hagrid. “Tha’s it, Harry . . . now, bow . . ."
"Ah,” said Hagrid, sounding worried. “Right — back away, now, Harry, easy does it —"
"Well done, Harry!” said Hagrid, ecstatic. “Right — yeh can touch him! Pat his beak, go on!"
"Righ’ then, Harry,” said Hagrid. “I reckon he might’ let yeh ride him!"
"Yeh climb up there, jus’ behind the wing joint,” said Hagrid, “an’ mind yeh don’ pull any of his feathers out, he won’ like that. . . ."
"Go on, then!"
"Good work, Harry!” roared Hagrid as everyone except Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle cheered. “Okay, who else wants a go?"
"This is very easy,” Malfoy drawled, loud enough for Harry to hear him. “I knew it must have been, if Potter could do it. . . . I bet you’re not dangerous at all, are you?” he said to the hippogriff. “Are you, you great ugly brute?"
"I’m dying!” Malfoy yelled as the class panicked. “I’m dying, look at me! It’s killed me!"
"Yer not dyin’!” said Hagrid, who had gone very white. “Someone help me — gotta get him outta here —"
"They should fire him straight away!"
"It was Malfoy’s fault!"
"I’m going to see if he’s okay!"
"D’you think he’ll be all right?"
"’Course he will. Madam Pomfrey can mend cuts in about a second,"
"That was a really bad thing to happen in Hagrid’s first class, though, wasn’t it?” said Ron, looking worried. “Trust Malfoy to mess things up for him. . . ."
"They wouldn’t fire him, would they?"
"They’d better not,"
"Well, you can’t say it wasn’t an interesting first day back,"
"There’s a light on in Hagrid’s window,"
"If we hurried, we could go down and see him. It’s still quite early. . . ."
"I don’t know,"
"I’m allowed to walk across the grounds,” he said pointedly. “Sirius Black hasn’t got past the dementors here, has he?"
"C’min."
"’Spect it’s a record,” he said thickly, when he recognized them. “Don’ reckon they’ve ever had a teacher who lasted on’y a day before."
"You haven’t been fired, Hagrid!"
"Not yet,” said Hagrid miserably, taking a huge gulp of whatever was in the tankard. “But ’s only a matter o’ time, i’n’t it, after Malfoy . . ."
"How is he?” said Ron as they all sat down. “It wasn’t serious, was it?"
"Madam Pomfrey fixed him best she could,” said Hagrid dully, “but he’s sayin’ it’s still agony . . . covered in bandages . . . moanin’ . . ."
"He’s faking it,” said Harry at once. “Madam Pomfrey can mend anything. She regrew half my bones last year. Trust Malfoy to milk it for all it’s worth."
"School gov’nors have bin told, o’ course,” said Hagrid miserably. “They reckon I started too big. Shoulda left hippogriffs fer later . . . done flobberworms or summat. . . . Jus’ thought it’d make a good firs’ lesson. . . . ’S all my fault. . . ."
"It’s all Malfoy’s fault, Hagrid!"
"We’re witnesses,” said Harry. “You said hippogriffs attack if you insult them. It’s Malfoy’s problem that he wasn’t listening. We’ll tell Dumbledore what really happened."
"Yeah, don’t worry, Hagrid, we’ll back you up,"
"I think you’ve had enough to drink, Hagrid,"
"Ar, maybe she’s right,"
"What’s he done?"
"Stuck his head in the water barrel,"
"Tha’s better,” he said, shaking his head like a dog and drenching them all. “Listen, it was good of yeh ter come an’ see me, I really —"
"WHAT D’YEH THINK YOU’RE DOIN’, EH?” he roared, so suddenly that they jumped a foot in the air. “YEH’RE NOT TO GO WANDERIN’ AROUND AFTER DARK, HARRY! AN’ YOU TWO! LETTIN’ HIM!"
"C’mon!” Hagrid said angrily. “I’m takin’ yer all back up ter school, an’ don’ let me catch yeh walkin’ down ter see me after dark again. I’m not worth that!"
"How is it, Draco?” simpered Pansy Parkinson. “Does it hurt much?"
"Yeah,"
"Settle down, settle down,"
"settle down"
"Sir,” Malfoy called, “sir, I’ll need help cutting up these daisy roots, because of my arm —"
"Weasley, cut up Malfoy’s roots for him,"
"There’s nothing wrong with your arm,"
"Weasley, you heard Professor Snape; cut up these roots."
"Professor,” drawled Malfoy, “Weasley’s mutilating my roots, sir."
"Change roots with Malfoy, Weasley."
"But, sir — !"
"Now,"
"And, sir, I’ll need this shrivelfig skinned,"
"Potter, you can skin Malfoy’s shrivelfig,"
"Seen your pal Hagrid lately?"
"None of your business,"
"I’m afraid he won’t be a teacher much longer,” said Malfoy in a tone of mock sorrow. “Father’s not very happy about my injury —"
"Keep talking, Malfoy, and I’ll give you a real injury,"
"— he’s complained to the school governors. And to the Ministry of Magic. Father’s got a lot of influence, you know. And a lasting injury like this” — he gave a huge, fake sigh — “who knows if my arm’ll ever be the same again?"
"So that’s why you’re putting it on,” said Harry, accidentally beheading a dead caterpillar because his hand was shaking in anger. “To try to get Hagrid fired."
"Well,” said Malfoy, lowering his voice to a whisper, “partly, Potter. But there are other benefits too. Weasley, slice my caterpillars for me."
"Orange, Longbottom,” said Snape, ladling some up and allowing it to splash back into the cauldron, so that everyone could see. “Orange. Tell me, boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of yours? Didn’t you hear me say, quite clearly, that only one rat spleen was needed? Didn’t I state plainly that a dash of leech juice would suffice? What do I have to do to make you understand, Longbottom?"
"Please, sir,” said Hermione, “please, I could help Neville put it right —"
"I don’t remember asking you to show off, Miss Granger,” said Snape coldly, and Hermione went as pink as Neville. “Longbottom, at the end of this lesson we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad and see what happens. Perhaps that will encourage you to do it properly."
"Help me!"
"Hey, Harry,” said Seamus Finnigan, leaning over to borrow Harry’s brass scales, “have you heard? Daily Prophet this morning — they reckon Sirius Black’s been sighted."
"Where?"
"Not too far from here,” said Seamus, who looked excited. “It was a Muggle who saw him. ’Course, she didn’t really understand. The Muggles think he’s just an ordinary criminal, don’t they? So she phoned the telephone hot line. By the time the Ministry of Magic got there, he was gone."
"Not too far from here . . . ,” Ron repeated, looking significantly at Harry. He turned around and saw Malfoy watching closely. “What, Malfoy? Need something else skinned?"
"Thinking of trying to catch Black single-handed, Potter?"
"Yeah, that’s right,"
"Of course, if it was me,” he said quietly, “I’d have done something before now. I wouldn’t be staying in school like a good boy, I’d be out there looking for him."
"What are you talking about, Malfoy?"
"Don’t you know, Potter?"
"Know what?"
"Maybe you’d rather not risk your neck,” he said. “Want to leave it to the dementors, do you? But if it was me, I’d want revenge. I’d hunt him down myself."
"What are you talking about?” said Harry angrily, but at that moment Snape called, “You should have finished adding your ingredients by now; this potion needs to stew before it can be drunk, so clear away while it simmers and then we’ll test Longbottom’s. . . ."
"What did Malfoy mean?” Harry muttered to Ron as he stuck his hands under the icy jet that poured from the gargoyle’s mouth. “Why would I want revenge on Black? He hasn’t done anything to me — yet."
"He’s making it up,” said Ron savagely. “He’s trying to make you do something stupid. . . ."
"Everyone gather ’round,” said Snape, his black eyes glittering, “and watch what happens to Longbottom’s toad. If he has managed to produce a Shrinking Solution, it will shrink to a tadpole. If, as I don’t doubt, he has done it wrong, his toad is likely to be poisoned."
"Five points from Gryffindor,” said Snape, which wiped the smiles from every face. “I told you not to help him, Miss Granger. Class dismissed."
"Five points from Gryffindor because the potion was all right! Why didn’t you lie, Hermione? You should’ve said Neville did it all by himself!"
"Where is she?"
"She was right behind us,"
"There she is,"
"How did you do that?"
"What?"
"One minute you were right behind us, the next moment, you were back at the bottom of the stairs again."
"What?” Hermione looked slightly confused. “Oh — I had to go back for something. Oh no —"
"Why are you carrying all these around with you?"
"You know how many subjects I’m taking,” said Hermione breathlessly. “Couldn’t hold these for me, could you?"
"But —” Ron was turning over the books she had handed him, looking at the covers. “You haven’t got any of these subjects today. It’s only Defense Against the Dark Arts this afternoon."
"Oh yes,” said Hermione vaguely, but she packed all the books back into her bag just the same. “I hope there’s something good for lunch, I’m starving,"
"D’you get the feeling Hermione’s not telling us something?"
"Good afternoon,” he said. “Would you please put all your books back in your bags. Today’s will be a practical lesson. You will need only your wands."
"Right then,” said Professor Lupin, when everyone was ready. “If you’d follow me."
"Loony, loopy Lupin,” Peeves sang. “Loony, loopy Lupin, loony, loopy Lupin —"
"I’d take that gum out of the keyhole if I were you, Peeves,” he said pleasantly. “Mr. Filch won’t be able to get in to his brooms."
"This is a useful little spell,” he told the class over his shoulder. “Please watch closely."
"Waddiwasi!"
"Cool, sir!"
"Thank you, Dean,” said Professor Lupin, putting his wand away again. “Shall we proceed?"
"Inside, please,"
"Leave it open, Lupin. I’d rather not witness this."
"Possibly no one’s warned you, Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."
"I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage of the operation,” he said, “and I am sure he will perform it admirably."
"Now, then,"
"Nothing to worry about,” said Professor Lupin calmly because a few people had jumped backward in alarm. “There’s a boggart in there."
"Boggarts like dark, enclosed spaces,"
"So, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what is a boggart?"
"It’s a shape-shifter,” she said. “It can take the shape of whatever it thinks will frighten us most."
"Couldn’t have put it better myself,"
"This means,” said Professor Lupin, choosing to ignore Neville’s small sputter of terror, “that we have a huge advantage over the boggart before we begin. Have you spotted it, Harry?"
"Er — because there are so many of us, it won’t know what shape it should be?"
"Precisely,"
"We will practice the charm without wands first. After me, please . . . Riddikulus!"
"Riddikulus!"
"Good,” said Professor Lupin. “Very good. But that was the easy part, I’m afraid. You see, the word alone is not enough. And this is where you come in, Neville."
"Right, Neville,” said Professor Lupin. “First things first: What would you say is the thing that frightens you most in the world?"
"Didn’t catch that, Neville, sorry,"
"Professor Snape."
"Professor Snape . . . hmmm . . . Neville, I believe you live with your grandmother?"
"Er — yes,” said Neville nervously. “But — I don’t want the boggart to turn into her either."
"No, no, you misunderstand me,” said Professor Lupin, now smiling. “I wonder, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grandmother usually wears?"
"Well . . . always the same hat. A tall one with a stuffed vulture on top. And a long dress . . . green, normally . . . and sometimes a fox-fur scarf."
"And a handbag?"
"A big red one,"
"Right then,” said Professor Lupin. “Can you picture those clothes very clearly, Neville? Can you see them in your mind’s eye?"
"Yes,"
"When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees you, it will assume the form of Professor Snape,” said Lupin. “And you will raise your wand — thus — and cry ‘Riddikulus’ — and concentrate hard on your grandmother’s clothes. If all goes well, Professor Boggart Snape will be forced into that vulture-topped hat, and that green dress, with that big red handbag."
"If Neville is successful, the boggart is likely to shift his attention to each of us in turn,” said Professor Lupin. “I would like all of you to take a moment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and imagine how you might force it to look comical. . . ."
"Take its legs off."
"Everyone ready?"
"Neville, we’re going to back away,” said Professor Lupin. “Let you have a clear field, all right? I’ll call the next person forward. . . . Everyone back, now, so Neville can get a clear shot —"
"On the count of three, Neville,” said Professor Lupin, who was pointing his own wand at the handle of the wardrobe. “One — two — three — now!"
"R-R-Riddikulus!"
"Parvati! Forward!"
"Riddikulus!"
"Seamus!"
"Riddikulus!"
"It’s confused!” shouted Lupin. “We’re getting there! Dean!"
"Riddikulus!"
"Excellent! Ron, you next!"
"Riddikulus!"
"Here!"
"Riddikulus!"
"Forward, Neville, and finish him off!"
"Riddikulus!” he shouted, and they had a split second’s view of Snape in his lacy dress before Neville let out a great “Ha!"
"Excellent!” cried Professor Lupin as the class broke into applause. “Excellent, Neville. Well done, everyone. . . . Let me see . . . five points to Gryffindor for every person to tackle the boggart — ten for Neville because he did it twice . . . and five each to Hermione and Harry."
"But I didn’t do anything,"
"You and Hermione answered my questions correctly at the start of the class, Harry,” Lupin said lightly. “Very well, everyone, an excellent lesson. Homework, kindly read the chapter on boggarts and summarize it for me . . . to be handed in on Monday. That will be all."
"Did you see me take that banshee?"
"And the hand!"
"And Snape in that hat!"
"And my mummy!"
"I wonder why Professor Lupin’s frightened of crystal balls?"
"That was the best Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson we’ve ever had, wasn’t it?"
"He seems like a very good teacher,” said Hermione approvingly. “But I wish I could have had a turn with the boggart —"
"What would it have been for you?” said Ron, sniggering. “A piece of homework that only got nine out of ten?"
"Look at the state of his robes,” Malfoy would say in a loud whisper as Professor Lupin passed. “He dresses like our old house-elf."
"Why would anyone bother looking after them?"
"This is our last chance — my last chance — to win the Quidditch Cup,"
"Gryffindor hasn’t won for seven years now. Okay, so we’ve had the worst luck in the world — injuries — then the tournament getting called off last year. . . .” Wood swallowed, as though the memory still brought a lump to his throat. “But we also know we’ve got the best — ruddy — team — in — the — school,"
"We’ve got three superb Chasers."
"We’ve got two unbeatable Beaters."
"Stop it, Oliver, you’re embarrassing us,"
"And we’ve got a Seeker who has never failed to win us a match!” Wood rumbled, glaring at Harry with a kind of furious pride. “And me,"
"We think you’re very good too, Oliver,"
"Spanking good Keeper,"
"The point is,” Wood went on, resuming his pacing, “the Quidditch Cup should have had our name on it these last two years. Ever since Harry joined the team, I’ve thought the thing was in the bag. But we haven’t got it, and this year’s the last chance we’ll get to finally see our name on the thing. . . ."
"Oliver, this year’s our year,"
"We’ll do it, Oliver!"
"Definitely,"
"What’s happened?"
"First Hogsmeade weekend,” said Ron, pointing at a notice that had appeared on the battered old bulletin board. “End of October. Halloween."
"Excellent,” said Fred, who had followed Harry through the portrait hole. “I need to visit Zonko’s. I’m nearly out of Stink Pellets."
"Harry, I’m sure you’ll be able to go next time,” she said. “They’re bound to catch Black soon. He’s been sighted once already."
"Black’s not fool enough to try anything in Hogsmeade,” said Ron. “Ask McGonagall if you can go this time, Harry. The next one might not be for ages —"
"Ron!” said Hermione. “Harry’s supposed to stay in school —"
"He can’t be the only third year left behind,” said Ron. “Ask McGonagall, go on, Harry —"
"Yeah, I think I will,"
"Does he have to eat that in front of us?"
"Clever Crookshanks, did you catch that all by yourself?"
"Just keep him over there, that’s all,” said Ron irritably, turning back to his star chart. “I’ve got Scabbers asleep in my bag."
"You can copy mine, if you like,"
"OY!” Ron roared, seizing his bag as Crookshanks sank four sets of claws deeply into it and began tearing ferociously. “GET OFF, YOU STUPID ANIMAL!"
"Ron, don’t hurt him!"
"CATCH THAT CAT!"
"Look at him!” he said furiously to Hermione, dangling Scabbers in front of her. “He’s skin and bone! You keep that cat away from him!"
"Crookshanks doesn’t understand it’s wrong!” said Hermione, her voice shaking. “All cats chase rats, Ron!"
"There’s something funny about that animal!” said Ron, who was trying to persuade a frantically wiggling Scabbers back into his pocket. “It heard me say that Scabbers was in my bag!"
"Oh, what rubbish,” said Hermione impatiently. “Crookshanks could smell him, Ron, how else d’you think —"
"That cat’s got it in for Scabbers!” said Ron, ignoring the people around him, who were starting to giggle. “And Scabbers was here first, and he’s ill!"
"How’s Scabbers?"
"He’s hiding at the bottom of my bed, shaking,"
"Careful, Weasley, careful!"
"What’s the matter, Lavender?"
"She got a letter from home this morning,” Parvati whispered. “It’s her rabbit, Binky. He’s been killed by a fox."
"Oh,” said Hermione, “I’m sorry, Lavender."
"I should have known!” said Lavender tragically. “You know what day it is?"
"Er —"
"The sixteenth of October! ‘That thing you’re dreading, it will happen on the sixteenth of October!’ Remember? She was right, she was right!"
"You — you were dreading Binky being killed by a fox?"
"Well, not necessarily by a fox,” said Lavender, looking up at Hermione with streaming eyes, “but I was obviously dreading him dying, wasn’t I?"
"Oh,"
"Was Binky an old rabbit?"
"N-no!” sobbed Lavender. “H-he was only a baby!"
"But then, why would you dread him dying?"
"Well, look at it logically,” said Hermione, turning to the rest of the group. “I mean, Binky didn’t even die today, did he? Lavender just got the news today” — Lavender wailed loudly — “and she can’t have been dreading it, because it’s come as a real shock —"
"Don’t mind Hermione, Lavender,” said Ron loudly, “she doesn’t think other people’s pets matter very much."
"One moment, please!” she called as the class made to leave. “As you’re all in my House, you should hand Hogsmeade permission forms to me before Halloween. No form, no visiting the village, so don’t forget!"
"Please, Professor, I — I think I’ve lost —"
"Your grandmother sent yours to me directly, Longbottom,” said Professor McGonagall. “She seemed to think it was safer. Well, that’s all, you may leave."
"Ask her now,"
"Oh, but —"
"Go for it, Harry,"
"Yes, Potter?"
"Professor, my aunt and uncle — er — forgot to sign my form,"
"So — er — d’you think it would be all right — I mean, will it be okay if I — if I go to Hogsmeade?"
"I’m afraid not, Potter,” she said. “You heard what I said. No form, no visiting the village. That’s the rule."
"But — Professor, my aunt and uncle — you know, they’re Muggles, they don’t really understand about — about Hogwarts forms and stuff,” Harry said, while Ron egged him on with vigorous nods. “If you said I could go —"
"But I don’t say so,” said Professor McGonagall, standing up and piling her papers neatly into a drawer. “The form clearly states that the parent or guardian must give permission.” She turned to look at him, with an odd expression on her face. Was it pity? “I’m sorry, Potter, but that’s my final word. You had better hurry, or you’ll be late for your next lesson."
"all-for-the-best"
"There’s always the feast,” said Ron, in an effort to cheer Harry up. “You know, the Halloween feast, in the evening."
"Yeah,” said Harry gloomily, “great."
"They make a fuss about Hogsmeade, but I assure you, Harry, it’s not all it’s cracked up to be,” he said seriously. “All right, the sweetshop’s rather good, and Zonko’s Joke Shop’s frankly dangerous, and yes, the Shrieking Shack’s always worth a visit, but really, Harry, apart from that, you’re not missing anything."
"We’ll bring you lots of sweets back from Honeydukes,"
"Yeah, loads,"
"Don’t worry about me,” said Harry, in what he hoped was an offhand voice, “I’ll see you at the feast. Have a good time."
"Staying here, Potter?” shouted Malfoy, who was standing in line with Crabbe and Goyle. “Scared of passing the dementors?"
"Password?"
"Fortuna Major,"
"Harry! Harry! Hi, Harry!"
"Aren’t you going to Hogsmeade, Harry? Why not? Hey” — Colin looked eagerly around at his friends — “you can come and sit with us, if you like, Harry!"
"Er — no, thanks, Colin,” said Harry, who wasn’t in the mood to have a lot of people staring avidly at the scar on his forehead. “I — I’ve got to go to the library, got to get some work done."
"What was the point waking me up?"
"What are you doing?"
"Nothing,"
"Nothing!” spat Filch, his jowls quivering unpleasantly. “A likely story! Sneaking around on your own — why aren’t you in Hogsmeade buying Stink Pellets and Belch Powder and Whizzing Worms like the rest of your nasty little friends?"
"Well, get back to your common room where you belong!"
"Harry?"
"What are you doing?” said Lupin, though in a very different voice from Filch. “Where are Ron and Hermione?"
"Hogsmeade,"
"Ah,” said Lupin. He considered Harry for a moment. “Why don’t you come in? I’ve just taken delivery of a grindylow for our next lesson."
"A what?"
"Water demon,” said Lupin, surveying the grindylow thoughtfully. “We shouldn’t have much difficulty with him, not after the kappas. The trick is to break his grip. You notice the abnormally long fingers? Strong, but very brittle."
"Cup of tea?” Lupin said, looking around for his kettle. “I was just thinking of making one."
"All right,"
"Sit down,” said Lupin, taking the lid off a dusty tin. “I’ve only got teabags, I’m afraid — but I daresay you’ve had enough of tea leaves?"
"How did you know about that?"
"Professor McGonagall told me,” said Lupin, passing Harry a chipped mug of tea. “You’re not worried, are you?"
"No,"
"Anything worrying you, Harry?"
"No,” Harry lied. He drank a bit of tea and watched the grindylow brandishing a fist at him. “Yes,” he said suddenly, putting his tea down on Lupin’s desk. “You know that day we fought the boggart?"
"Yes,"
"Why didn’t you let me fight it?"
"I would have thought that was obvious, Harry,"
"Why?"
"Well,” said Lupin, frowning slightly, “I assumed that if the boggart faced you, it would assume the shape of Lord Voldemort."
"Clearly, I was wrong,” said Lupin, still frowning at Harry. “But I didn’t think it a good idea for Lord Voldemort to materialize in the staffroom. I imagined that people would panic."
"But then,” said Harry honestly. “I — I remembered those dementors."
"I see,” said Lupin thoughtfully. “Well, well . . . I’m impressed.” He smiled slightly at the look of surprise on Harry’s face. “That suggests that what you fear most of all is — fear. Very wise, Harry."
"So you’ve been thinking that I didn’t believe you capable of fighting the boggart?"
"Well . . . yeah,” said Harry. He was suddenly feeling a lot happier. “Professor Lupin, you know the dementors —"
"Come in,"
"Ah, Severus,” said Lupin, smiling. “Thanks very much. Could you leave it here on the desk for me?"
"I was just showing Harry my grindylow,"
"Fascinating,” said Snape, without looking at it. “You should drink that directly, Lupin."
"Yes, yes, I will,"
"I made an entire cauldronful,” Snape continued. “If you need more."
"I should probably take some again tomorrow. Thanks very much, Severus."
"Not at all,"
"Professor Snape has very kindly concocted a potion for me,” he said. “I have never been much of a potion-brewer and this one is particularly complex.” He picked up the goblet and sniffed it. “Pity sugar makes it useless,"
"Why — ?"
"I’ve been feeling a bit off-color,” he said. “This potion is the only thing that helps. I am very lucky to be working alongside Professor Snape; there aren’t many wizards who are up to making it."
"Professor Snape’s very interested in the Dark Arts,"
"Really?"
"Some people reckon —” Harry hesitated, then plunged recklessly on, “some people reckon he’d do anything to get the Defense Against the Dark Arts job."
"Disgusting,” he said. “Well, Harry, I’d better get back to work. I’ll see you at the feast later."
"Right,"
"There you go,” said Ron. “We got as much as we could carry."
"Thanks,” said Harry, picking up a packet of tiny black Pepper Imps. “What’s Hogsmeade like? Where did you go?"
"The post office, Harry! About two hundred owls, all sitting on shelves, all color-coded depending on how fast you want your letter to get there!"
"Honeydukes has got a new kind of fudge; they were giving out free samples, there’s a bit, look —"
"We think we saw an ogre, honestly, they get all sorts at the Three Broomsticks —"
"Wish we could have brought you some butterbeer, really warms you up —"
"What did you do?” said Hermione, looking anxious. “Did you get any work done?"
"No,” said Harry. “Lupin made me a cup of tea in his office. And then Snape came in. . . ."
"Lupin drank it?” he gasped. “Is he mad?"
"We’d better go down, you know, the feast’ll be starting in five minutes. . . ."
"But if he — you know” — Hermione dropped her voice, glancing nervously around — “if he was trying to — to poison Lupin — he wouldn’t have done it in front of Harry."
"Yeah, maybe,"
"The dementors send their love, Potter!"
"Why isn’t anyone going in?"
"Let me through, please,” came Percy’s voice, and he came bustling importantly through the crowd. “What’s the holdup here? You can’t all have forgotten the password — excuse me, I’m Head Boy —"
"Somebody get Professor Dumbledore. Quick."
"What’s going on?"
"Oh, my —"
"We need to find her,” said Dumbledore. “Professor McGonagall, please go to Mr. Filch at once and tell him to search every painting in the castle for the Fat Lady."
"You’ll be lucky!"
"What do you mean, Peeves?"
"Ashamed, Your Headship, sir. Doesn’t want to be seen. She’s a horrible mess. Saw her running through the landscape up on the fourth floor, sir, dodging between the trees. Crying something dreadful,” he said happily. “Poor thing,"
"Did she say who did it?"
"Oh yes, Professorhead,” said Peeves, with the air of one cradling a large bombshell in his arms. “He got very angry when she wouldn’t let him in, you see.” Peeves flipped over and grinned at Dumbledore from between his own legs. “Nasty temper he’s got, that Sirius Black."
"The teachers and I need to conduct a thorough search of the castle,” Professor Dumbledore told them as Professors McGonagall and Flitwick closed all doors into the hall. “I’m afraid that, for your own safety, you will have to spend the night here. I want the prefects to stand guard over the entrances to the hall and I am leaving the Head Boy and Girl in charge. Any disturbance should be reported to me immediately,” he added to Percy, who was looking immensely proud and important. “Send word with one of the ghosts."
"Oh, yes, you’ll be needing . . ."
"Sleep well,"
"Everyone into their sleeping bags!” shouted Percy. “Come on, now, no more talking! Lights out in ten minutes!"
"C’mon,"
"Do you think Black’s still in the castle?"
"Dumbledore obviously thinks he might be,"
"It’s very lucky he picked tonight, you know,” said Hermione as they climbed fully dressed into their sleeping bags and propped themselves on their elbows to talk. “The one night we weren’t in the tower. . . ."
"I reckon he’s lost track of time, being on the run,” said Ron. “Didn’t realize it was Halloween. Otherwise he’d have come bursting in here."
"How did he get in?"
"Maybe he knows how to Apparate,” said a Ravenclaw a few feet away. “Just appear out of thin air, you know."
"Disguised himself, probably,"
"He could’ve flown in,"
"Honestly, am I the only person who’s ever bothered to read Hogwarts: A History?"
"Probably,” said Ron. “Why?"
"Because the castle’s protected by more than walls, you know,” said Hermione. “There are all sorts of enchantments on it, to stop people entering by stealth. You can’t just Apparate in here. And I’d like to see the disguise that could fool those dementors. They’re guarding every single entrance to the grounds. They’d have seen him fly in too. And Filch knows all the secret passages, they’ll have them covered. . . ."
"The lights are going out now!” Percy shouted. “I want everyone in their sleeping bags and no more talking!"
"Any sign of him, Professor?"
"No. All well here?"
"Everything under control, sir."
"Good. There’s no point moving them all now. I’ve found a temporary guardian for the Gryffindor portrait hole. You’ll be able to move them back in tomorrow."
"And the Fat Lady, sir?"
"Hiding in a map of Argyllshire on the second floor. Apparently she refused to let Black in without the password, so he attacked. She’s still very distressed, but once she’s calmed down, I’ll have Mr. Filch restore her."
"Headmaster?” It was Snape. Harry kept quite still, listening hard. “The whole of the third floor has been searched. He’s not there. And Filch has done the dungeons; nothing there either."
"What about the Astronomy Tower? Professor Trelawney’s room? The Owlery?"
"All searched . . ."
"Very well, Severus. I didn’t really expect Black to linger."
"Have you any theory as to how he got in, Professor?"
"Many, Severus, each of them as unlikely as the next."
"You remember the conversation we had, Headmaster, just before — ah — the start of term?"
"I do, Severus,"
"It seems — almost impossible — that Black could have entered the school without inside help. I did express my concerns when you appointed —"
"I do not believe a single person inside this castle would have helped Black enter it,” said Dumbledore, and his tone made it so clear that the subject was closed that Snape didn’t reply. “I must go down to the dementors,” said Dumbledore. “I said I would inform them when our search was complete."
"Didn’t they want to help, sir?"
"Oh yes,” said Dumbledore coldly. “But I’m afraid no dementor will cross the threshold of this castle while I am headmaster."
"What was all that about?"
"He’s a complete lunatic,” said Seamus Finnigan angrily to Percy. “Can’t we get anyone else?"
"None of the other pictures wanted the job,” said Percy. “Frightened of what happened to the Fat Lady. Sir Cadogan was the only one brave enough to volunteer."
"There’s no point hiding it from you any longer, Potter,” she said in a very serious voice. “I know this will come as a shock to you, but Sirius Black —"
"I know he’s after me,” said Harry wearily. “I heard Ron’s dad telling his mum. Mr. Weasley works for the Ministry of Magic."
"I see! Well, in that case, Potter, you’ll understand why I don’t think it’s a good idea for you to be practicing Quidditch in the evenings. Out on the field with only your team members, it’s very exposed, Potter —"
"We’ve got our first match on Saturday!” said Harry, outraged. “I’ve got to train, Professor!"
"Hmm . . .” Professor McGonagall stood up and stared out of the window at the Quidditch field, just visible through the rain. “Well . . . goodness knows, I’d like to see us win the Cup at last . . . but all the same, Potter . . . I’d be happier if a teacher were present. I’ll ask Madam Hooch to oversee your training sessions."
"We’re not playing Slytherin!” he told them, looking very angry. “Flint’s just been to see me. We’re playing Hufflepuff instead."
"Why?"
"Flint’s excuse is that their Seeker’s arm’s still injured,” said Wood, grinding his teeth furiously. “But it’s obvious why they’re doing it. Don’t want to play in this weather. Think it’ll damage their chances. . . ."
"There’s nothing wrong with Malfoy’s arm!” said Harry furiously. “He’s faking it!"
"I know that, but we can’t prove it,” said Wood bitterly. “And we’ve been practicing all those moves assuming we’re playing Slytherin, and instead it’s Hufflepuff, and their style’s quite different. They’ve got a new Captain and Seeker, Cedric Diggory —"
"What?"
"He’s that tall, good-looking one, isn’t he?"
"Strong and silent,"
"He’s only silent because he’s too thick to string two words together,” said Fred impatiently. “I don’t know why you’re worried, Oliver, Hufflepuff is a pushover. Last time we played them, Harry caught the Snitch in about five minutes, remember?"
"We were playing in completely different conditions!” Wood shouted, his eyes bulging slightly. “Diggory’s put a very strong side together! He’s an excellent Seeker! I was afraid you’d take it like this! We mustn’t relax! We must keep our focus! Slytherin is trying to wrong-foot us! We must win!"
"Oliver, calm down!” said Fred, looking slightly alarmed. “We’re taking Hufflepuff very seriously. Seriously."
"Ah, if only my arm was feeling a bit better!"
"Diggory’s got a very fast swerve, Harry, so you might want to try looping him —"
"Sorry I’m late, Professor Lupin, I —"
"This lesson began ten minutes ago, Potter, so I think we’ll make it ten points from Gryffindor. Sit down."
"Where’s Professor Lupin?"
"He says he is feeling too ill to teach today,” said Snape with a twisted smile. “I believe I told you to sit down?"
"What’s wrong with him?"
"Nothing life-threatening,” he said, looking as though he wished it were. “Five more points from Gryffindor, and if I have to ask you to sit down again, it will be fifty."
"As I was saying before Potter interrupted, Professor Lupin has not left any record of the topics you have covered so far —"
"Please, sir, we’ve done boggarts, Red Caps, kappas, and grindylows,” said Hermione quickly, “and we’re just about to start —"
"Be quiet,” said Snape coldly. “I did not ask for information. I was merely commenting on Professor Lupin’s lack of organization."
"He’s the best Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher we’ve ever had,"
"You are easily satisfied. Lupin is hardly overtaxing you — I would expect first years to be able to deal with Red Caps and grindylows. Today we shall discuss —"
"— werewolves,"
"But, sir,” said Hermione, seemingly unable to restrain herself, “we’re not supposed to do werewolves yet, we’re due to start hinkypunks —"
"Miss Granger,” said Snape in a voice of deadly calm, “I was under the impression that I am teaching this lesson, not you. And I am telling you all to turn to page 394.” He glanced around again. “All of you! Now!"
"Which of you can tell me how we distinguish between the werewolf and the true wolf?"
"Anyone?” Snape said, ignoring Hermione. His twisted smile was back. “Are you telling me that Professor Lupin hasn’t even taught you the basic distinction between —"
"We told you,” said Parvati suddenly, “we haven’t got as far as werewolves yet, we’re still on —"
"Silence!” snarled Snape. “Well, well, well, I never thought I’d meet a third-year class who wouldn’t even recognize a werewolf when they saw one. I shall make a point of informing Professor Dumbledore how very behind you all are. . . ."
"Please, sir,” said Hermione, whose hand was still in the air, “the werewolf differs from the true wolf in several small ways. The snout of the werewolf —"
"That is the second time you have spoken out of turn, Miss Granger,” said Snape coolly. “Five more points from Gryffindor for being an insufferable know-it-all."
"You asked us a question and she knows the answer! Why ask if you don’t want to be told?"
"Detention, Weasley,” Snape said silkily, his face very close to Ron’s. “And if I ever hear you criticize the way I teach a class again, you will be very sorry indeed."
"Very poorly explained . . . That is incorrect, the kappa is more commonly found in Mongolia. . . . Professor Lupin gave this eight out of ten? I wouldn’t have given it three. . . ."
"You will each write an essay, to be handed in to me, on the ways you recognize and kill werewolves. I want two rolls of parchment on the subject, and I want them by Monday morning. It is time somebody took this class in hand. Weasley, stay behind, we need to arrange your detention."
"Snape’s never been like this with any of our other Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers, even if he did want the job,” Harry said to Hermione. “Why’s he got it in for Lupin? D’you think this is all because of the boggart?"
"I don’t know,” said Hermione pensively. “But I really hope Professor Lupin gets better soon. . . ."
"D’you know what that” — (he called Snape something that made Hermione say “Ron!”) — “is making me do? I’ve got to scrub out the bedpans in the hospital wing. Without magic!” He was breathing deeply, his fists clenched. “Why couldn’t Black have hidden in Snape’s office, eh? He could have finished him off for us!"
"What did you do that for?"
"You know, I reckon Ron was right about you,” Harry told Crookshanks suspiciously. “There are plenty of mice around this place — go and chase them. Go on,” he added, nudging Crookshanks down the spiral staircase with his foot. “Leave Scabbers alone."
"Stand and fight, you mangy cur!"
"Oh, shut up,"
"It’s going to be a tough one,"
"Stop worrying, Oliver,” said Alicia soothingly, “we don’t mind a bit of rain."
"Mount your brooms."
"I called for time-out!” Wood roared at his team. “Come on, under here —"
"What’s the score?"
"We’re fifty points up,” said Wood, “but unless we get the Snitch soon, we’ll be playing into the night."
"I’ve got no chance with these on,"
"I’ve had an idea, Harry! Give me your glasses, quick!"
"Impervius!"
"There!” she said, handing them back to Harry. “They’ll repel water!"
"Brilliant!” he called hoarsely after her as she disappeared into the crowd. “Okay, team, let’s go for it!"
"Harry!” came Wood’s anguished yell from the Gryffindor goalposts. “Harry, behind you!"
"Come on!” he growled at his Nimbus as the rain whipped his face. “Faster!"
"Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!"
"Stand aside, you silly girl . . . stand aside, now. . . ."
"Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead —"
"Not Harry! Please . . . have mercy . . . have mercy. . . ."
"Lucky the ground was so soft."
"I thought he was dead for sure."
"But he didn’t even break his glasses."
"That was the scariest thing I’ve ever seen in my life."
"Harry!” said Fred, who looked extremely white underneath the mud. “How’re you feeling?"
"What happened?"
"You fell off,” said Fred. “Must’ve been — what — fifty feet?"
"We thought you’d died,"
"But the match,” said Harry. “What happened? Are we doing a replay?"
"We didn’t — lose?"
"Diggory got the Snitch,” said George. “Just after you fell. He didn’t realize what had happened. When he looked back and saw you on the ground, he tried to call it off. Wanted a rematch. But they won fair and square . . . even Wood admits it."
"Where is Wood?"
"Still in the showers,” said Fred. “We think he’s trying to drown himself."
"C’mon, Harry, you’ve never missed the Snitch before."
"There had to be one time you didn’t get it,"
"It’s not over yet,” said Fred. “We lost by a hundred points, right? So if Hufflepuff loses to Ravenclaw and we beat Ravenclaw and Slytherin . . ."
"Hufflepuff’ll have to lose by at least two hundred points,"
"But if they beat Ravenclaw . . ."
"No way, Ravenclaw is too good. But if Slytherin loses against Hufflepuff . . ."
"It all depends on the points — a margin of a hundred either way —"
"We’ll come and see you later,” Fred told him. “Don’t beat yourself up, Harry, you’re still the best Seeker we’ve ever had."
"Dumbledore was really angry,” Hermione said in a quaking voice. “I’ve never seen him like that before. He ran onto the field as you fell, waved his wand, and you sort of slowed down before you hit the ground. Then he whirled his wand at the dementors. Shot silver stuff at them. They left the stadium right away. . . . He was furious they’d come onto the grounds. We heard him —"
"Then he magicked you onto a stretcher,” said Ron. “And walked up to school with you floating on it. Everyone thought you were . . ."
"Did someone get my Nimbus?"
"Er —"
"What?"
"Well . . . when you fell off, it got blown away,"
"And?"
"And it hit — it hit — oh, Harry — it hit the Whomping Willow."
"And?"
"Well, you know the Whomping Willow,” said Ron. “It — it doesn’t like being hit."
"Professor Flitwick brought it back just before you came around,"
"If Snape’s teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts again, I’m skiving off,” said Ron as they headed toward Lupin’s classroom after lunch. “Check who’s in there, Hermione."
"It’s okay!"
"It’s not fair, he was only filling in, why should he give us homework?"
"We don’t know anything about werewolves —"
"— two rolls of parchment!"
"Did you tell Professor Snape we haven’t covered them yet?"
"Yes, but he said we were really behind —"
"— he wouldn’t listen —"
"— two rolls of parchment!"
"Don’t worry. I’ll speak to Professor Snape. You don’t have to do the essay."
"Oh no,” said Hermione, looking very disappointed. “I’ve already finished it!"
"Lures travelers into bogs,” said Professor Lupin as they took notes. “You notice the lantern dangling from his hand? Hops ahead — people follow the light — then —"
"Wait a moment, Harry,” Lupin called. “I’d like a word."
"I heard about the match,” said Lupin, turning back to his desk and starting to pile books into his briefcase, “and I’m sorry about your broomstick. Is there any chance of fixing it?"
"No,” said Harry. “The tree smashed it to bits."
"They planted the Whomping Willow the same year that I arrived at Hogwarts. People used to play a game, trying to get near enough to touch the trunk. In the end, a boy called Davey Gudgeon nearly lost an eye, and we were forbidden to go near it. No broomstick would have a chance."
"Did you hear about the dementors too?"
"Yes, I did. I don’t think any of us have seen Professor Dumbledore that angry. They have been growing restless for some time . . . furious at his refusal to let them inside the grounds. . . . I suppose they were the reason you fell?"
"Yes,” said Harry. He hesitated, and then the question he had to ask burst from him before he could stop himself. “Why? Why do they affect me like that? Am I just — ?"
"It has nothing to do with weakness,” said Professor Lupin sharply, as though he had read Harry’s mind. “The dementors affect you worse than the others because there are horrors in your past that the others don’t have."
"Dementors are among the foulest creatures that walk this earth. They infest the darkest, filthiest places, they glory in decay and despair, they drain peace, hope, and happiness out of the air around them. Even Muggles feel their presence, though they can’t see them. Get too near a dementor and every good feeling, every happy memory will be sucked out of you. If it can, the dementor will feed on you long enough to reduce you to something like itself . . . soulless and evil. You’ll be left with nothing but the worst experiences of your life. And the worst that happened to you, Harry, is enough to make anyone fall off their broom. You have nothing to feel ashamed of."
"When they get near me —” Harry stared at Lupin’s desk, his throat tight. “I can hear Voldemort murdering my mum."
"Why did they have to come to the match?"
"They’re getting hungry,” said Lupin coolly, shutting his briefcase with a snap. “Dumbledore won’t let them into the school, so their supply of human prey has dried up. . . . I don’t think they could resist the large crowd around the Quidditch field. All that excitement . . . emotions running high . . . it was their idea of a feast."
"Azkaban must be terrible,"
"The fortress is set on a tiny island, way out to sea, but they don’t need walls and water to keep the prisoners in, not when they’re all trapped inside their own heads, incapable of a single cheerful thought. Most of them go mad within weeks."
"But Sirius Black escaped from them,” Harry said slowly. “He got away. . . ."
"Yes,” he said, straightening up, “Black must have found a way to fight them. I wouldn’t have believed it possible. . . . Dementors are supposed to drain a wizard of his powers if he is left with them too long. . . ."
"You made that dementor on the train back off,"
"There are — certain defenses one can use,” said Lupin. “But there was only one dementor on the train. The more there are, the more difficult it becomes to resist."
"What defenses?” said Harry at once. “Can you teach me?"
"I don’t pretend to be an expert at fighting dementors, Harry . . . quite the contrary. . . ."
"But if the dementors come to another Quidditch match, I need to be able to fight them —"
"Well . . . all right. I’ll try and help. But it’ll have to wait until next term, I’m afraid. I have a lot to do before the holidays. I chose a very inconvenient time to fall ill."
"We can do all our Christmas shopping there!” said Hermione. “Mum and Dad would really love those Toothflossing Stringmints from Honeydukes!"
"Psst — Harry!"
"What are you doing?” said Harry curiously. “How come you’re not going to Hogsmeade?"
"We’ve come to give you a bit of festive cheer before we go,” said Fred, with a mysterious wink. “Come in here. . . ."
"Early Christmas present for you, Harry,"
"What’s that supposed to be?"
"This, Harry, is the secret of our success,"
"It’s a wrench, giving it to you,” said Fred, “but we decided last night, your need’s greater than ours."
"Anyway, we know it by heart,” said George. “We bequeath it to you. We don’t really need it anymore."
"And what do I need with a bit of old parchment?"
"A bit of old parchment!” said Fred, closing his eyes with a grimace as though Harry had mortally offended him. “Explain, George."
"Well . . . when we were in our first year, Harry — young, carefree, and innocent —"
"— well, more innocent than we are now — we got into a spot of bother with Filch."
"We let off a Dungbomb in the corridor and it upset him for some reason —"
"So he hauled us off to his office and started threatening us with the usual —"
"— detention —"
"— disembowelment —"
"— and we couldn’t help noticing a drawer in one of his filing cabinets marked Confiscated and Highly Dangerous."
"Don’t tell me —"
"Well, what would you’ve done?” said Fred. “George caused a diversion by dropping another Dungbomb, I whipped the drawer open and grabbed — this."
"It’s not as bad as it sounds, you know,” said George. “We don’t reckon Filch ever found out how to work it. He probably suspected what it was, though, or he wouldn’t have confiscated it."
"And you know how to work it?"
"Oh yes,” said Fred, smirking. “This little beauty’s taught us more than all the teachers in this school."
"You’re winding me up,"
"Oh, are we?"
"I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."
"Right into Hogsmeade,” said Fred, tracing one of them with his finger. “There are seven in all. Now, Filch knows about these four” — he pointed them out — “but we’re sure we’re the only ones who know about these. Don’t bother with the one behind the mirror on the fourth floor. We used it until last winter, but it’s caved in — completely blocked. And we don’t reckon anyone’s ever used this one, because the Whomping Willow’s planted right over the entrance. But this one here, this one leads right into the cellar of Honeydukes. We’ve used it loads of times. And as you might’ve noticed, the entrance is right outside this room, through that one-eyed old crone’s hump."
"Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs,” sighed George, patting the heading of the map. “We owe them so much."
"Noble men, working tirelessly to help a new generation of lawbreakers,"
"Right,” said George briskly. “Don’t forget to wipe it after you’ve used it —"
"— or anyone can read it,"
"Just tap it again and say, ‘Mischief managed!’ And it’ll go blank."
"So, young Harry,” said Fred, in an uncanny impersonation of Percy, “mind you behave yourself."
"See you in Honeydukes,"
"Dissendium."
"Dissendium!"
"Lumos!” and saw that he was in a very narrow, low, earthy passageway. He raised the map, tapped it with the tip of his wand, and muttered, “Mischief managed!"
"And get another box of Jelly Slugs, dear, they’ve nearly cleaned us out —"
"Special Effects” sweets: Drooble’s Best Blowing Gum (which filled a room with bluebell-colored bubbles that refused to pop for days), the strange, splintery Toothflossing Stringmints, tiny black Pepper Imps (“Breathe fire for your friends!”), Ice Mice (“Hear your teeth chatter and squeak!”), peppermint creams shaped like toads (“Hop realistically in the stomach!"
"Ugh, no, Harry won’t want one of those, they’re for vampires, I expect,"
"How about these?"
"Definitely not,"
"Harry!” squealed Hermione. “What are you doing here? How — how did you — ?"
"Wow!” said Ron, looking very impressed, “you’ve learned to Apparate!"
"’Course I haven’t,"
"How come Fred and George never gave it to me!” said Ron, outraged. “I’m their brother!"
"But Harry isn’t going to keep it!” said Hermione, as though the idea were ludicrous. “He’s going to hand it in to Professor McGonagall, aren’t you, Harry?"
"No, I’m not!"
"Are you mad?” said Ron, goggling at Hermione. “Hand in something that good?"
"If I hand it in, I’ll have to say where I got it! Filch would know Fred and George had nicked it!"
"But what about Sirius Black?” Hermione hissed. “He could be using one of the passages on that map to get into the castle! The teachers have got to know!"
"He can’t be getting in through a passage,” said Harry quickly. “There are seven secret tunnels on the map, right? Fred and George reckon Filch already knows about four of them. And of the other three — one of them’s caved in, so no one can get through it. One of them’s got the Whomping Willow planted over the entrance, so you can’t get out of it. And the one I just came through — well — it’s really hard to see the entrance to it down in the cellar, so unless he knew it was there . . ."
"See?” said Ron quietly. “I’d like to see Black try and break into Honeydukes with dementors swarming all over the village. Anyway, Hermione, the Honeydukes owners would hear a break-in, wouldn’t they? They live over the shop!"
"Yes, but — but —” Hermione seemed to be struggling to find another problem. “Look, Harry still shouldn’t be coming into Hogsmeade. He hasn’t got a signed form! If anyone finds out, he’ll be in so much trouble! And it’s not nightfall yet — what if Sirius Black turns up today? Now?"
"He’d have a job spotting Harry in this,” said Ron, nodding through the mullioned windows at the thick, swirling snow. “Come on, Hermione, it’s Christmas. Harry deserves a break."
"Are you going to report me?"
"Oh — of course not — but honestly, Harry —"
"Seen the Fizzing Whizbees, Harry?” said Ron, grabbing him and leading him over to their barrel. “And the Jelly Slugs? And the Acid Pops? Fred gave me one of those when I was seven — it burnt a hole right through my tongue. I remember Mum walloping him with her broomstick.” Ron stared broodingly into the Acid Pop box. “Reckon Fred’d take a bit of Cockroach Cluster if I told him they were peanuts?"
"That’s the post office —"
"Zonko’s is up there —"
"We could go up to the Shrieking Shack —"
"Tell you what,” said Ron, his teeth chattering, “shall we go for a butterbeer in the Three Broomsticks?"
"That’s Madam Rosmerta,” said Ron. “I’ll get the drinks, shall I?"
"Merry Christmas!"
"Mobiliarbus!"
"A small gillywater —"
"Mine,"
"Four pints of mulled mead —"
"Ta, Rosmerta,"
"A cherry syrup and soda with ice and umbrella —"
"Mmm!"
"So you’ll be the red currant rum, Minister."
"Thank you, Rosmerta, m’dear,” said Fudge’s voice. “Lovely to see you again, I must say. Have one yourself, won’t you? Come and join us. . . ."
"Well, thank you very much, Minister."
"So, what brings you to this neck of the woods, Minister?"
"What else, m’dear, but Sirius Black? I daresay you heard what happened up at the school at Halloween?"
"I did hear a rumor,"
"Did you tell the whole pub, Hagrid?"
"Do you think Black’s still in the area, Minister?"
"I’m sure of it,"
"You know that the dementors have searched my pub twice?” said Madam Rosmerta, a slight edge to her voice. “Scared all my customers away. . . . It’s very bad for business, Minister."
"Rosmerta, m’dear, I don’t like them any more than you do,” said Fudge uncomfortably. “Necessary precaution . . . unfortunate, but there you are. . . . I’ve just met some of them. They’re in a fury against Dumbledore — he won’t let them inside the castle grounds."
"I should think not,” said Professor McGonagall sharply. “How are we supposed to teach with those horrors floating around?"
"Hear, hear!"
"All the same,” demurred Fudge, “they are here to protect you all from something much worse. . . . We all know what Black’s capable of. . . ."
"Do you know, I still have trouble believing it,” said Madam Rosmerta thoughtfully. “Of all the people to go over to the Dark Side, Sirius Black was the last I’d have thought . . . I mean, I remember him when he was a boy at Hogwarts. If you’d told me then what he was going to become, I’d have said you’d had too much mead."
"You don’t know the half of it, Rosmerta,” said Fudge gruffly. “The worst he did isn’t widely known."
"The worst?” said Madam Rosmerta, her voice alive with curiosity. “Worse than murdering all those poor people, you mean?"
"I certainly do,"
"I can’t believe that. What could possibly be worse?"
"You say you remember him at Hogwarts, Rosmerta,” murmured Professor McGonagall. “Do you remember who his best friend was?"
"Naturally,” said Madam Rosmerta, with a small laugh. “Never saw one without the other, did you? The number of times I had them in here — ooh, they used to make me laugh. Quite the double act, Sirius Black and James Potter!"
"Precisely,” said Professor McGonagall. “Black and Potter. Ringleaders of their little gang. Both very bright, of course — exceptionally bright, in fact — but I don’t think we’ve ever had such a pair of troublemakers —"
"I dunno,” chuckled Hagrid. “Fred and George Weasley could give ’em a run fer their money."
"You’d have thought Black and Potter were brothers!” chimed in Professor Flitwick. “Inseparable!"
"Of course they were,” said Fudge. “Potter trusted Black beyond all his other friends. Nothing changed when they left school. Black was best man when James married Lily. Then they named him godfather to Harry. Harry has no idea, of course. You can imagine how the idea would torment him."
"Because Black turned out to be in league with You-Know-Who?"
"Worse even than that, m’dear. . . .” Fudge dropped his voice and proceeded in a sort of low rumble. “Not many people are aware that the Potters knew You-Know-Who was after them. Dumbledore, who was of course working tirelessly against You-Know-Who, had a number of useful spies. One of them tipped him off, and he alerted James and Lily at once. He advised them to go into hiding. Well, of course, You-Know-Who wasn’t an easy person to hide from. Dumbledore told them that their best chance was the Fidelius Charm."
"How does that work?"
"An immensely complex spell,” he said squeakily, “involving the magical concealment of a secret inside a single, living soul. The information is hidden inside the chosen person, or Secret-Keeper, and is henceforth impossible to find — unless, of course, the Secret-Keeper chooses to divulge it. As long as the Secret-Keeper refused to speak, You-Know-Who could search the village where Lily and James were staying for years and never find them, not even if he had his nose pressed against their sitting-room window!"
"So Black was the Potters’ Secret-Keeper?"
"Naturally,” said Professor McGonagall. “James Potter told Dumbledore that Black would die rather than tell where they were, that Black was planning to go into hiding himself . . . and yet, Dumbledore remained worried. I remember him offering to be the Potters’ Secret-Keeper himself."
"He suspected Black?"
"He was sure that somebody close to the Potters had been keeping You-Know-Who informed of their movements,” said Professor McGonagall darkly. “Indeed, he had suspected for some time that someone on our side had turned traitor and was passing a lot of information to You-Know-Who."
"But James Potter insisted on using Black?"
"He did,” said Fudge heavily. “And then, barely a week after the Fidelius Charm had been performed —"
"Black betrayed them?"
"He did indeed. Black was tired of his double-agent role, he was ready to declare his support openly for You-Know-Who, and he seems to have planned this for the moment of the Potters’ death. But, as we all know, You-Know-Who met his downfall in little Harry Potter. Powers gone, horribly weakened, he fled. And this left Black in a very nasty position indeed. His master had fallen at the very moment when he, Black, had shown his true colors as a traitor. He had no choice but to run for it —"
"Filthy, stinkin’ turncoat!"
"Shh!"
"I met him!” growled Hagrid. “I musta bin the last ter see him before he killed all them people! It was me what rescued Harry from Lily an’ James’s house after they was killed! Jus’ got him outta the ruins, poor little thing, with a great slash across his forehead, an’ his parents dead . . . an’ Sirius Black turns up, on that flyin’ motorbike he used ter ride. Never occurred ter me what he was doin’ there. I didn’ know he’d bin Lily an’ James’s Secret-Keeper. Thought he’d jus’ heard the news o’ You-Know-Who’s attack an’ come ter see what he could do. White an’ shakin’, he was. An’ yeh know what I did? I COMFORTED THE MURDERIN’ TRAITOR!"
"Hagrid, please!” said Professor McGonagall. “Keep your voice down!"
"But what if I’d given Harry to him, eh? I bet he’d’ve pitched him off the bike halfway out ter sea. His bes’ friends’ son! But when a wizard goes over ter the Dark Side, there’s nothin’ and no one that matters to ’em anymore. . . ."
"But he didn’t manage to disappear, did he? The Ministry of Magic caught up with him next day!"
"Alas, if only we had,” said Fudge bitterly. “It was not we who found him. It was little Peter Pettigrew — another of the Potters’ friends. Maddened by grief, no doubt, and knowing that Black had been the Potters’ Secret-Keeper, he went after Black himself."
"Pettigrew . . . that fat little boy who was always tagging around after them at Hogwarts?"
"Hero-worshipped Black and Potter,” said Professor McGonagall. “Never quite in their league, talent-wise. I was often rather sharp with him. You can imagine how I — how I regret that now. . . ."
"There, now, Minerva,” said Fudge kindly, “Pettigrew died a hero’s death. Eyewitnesses — Muggles, of course, we wiped their memories later — told us how Pettigrew cornered Black. They say he was sobbing, ‘Lily and James, Sirius! How could you?’ And then he went for his wand. Well, of course, Black was quicker. Blew Pettigrew to smithereens. . . ."
"Stupid boy . . . foolish boy . . . he was always hopeless at dueling . . . should have left it to the Ministry. . . ."
"I tell yeh, if I’d got ter Black before little Pettigrew did, I wouldn’t’ve messed around with wands — I’d’ve ripped him limb — from — limb,"
"You don’t know what you’re talking about, Hagrid,” said Fudge sharply. “Nobody but trained Hit Wizards from the Magical Law Enforcement Squad would have stood a chance against Black once he was cornered. I was Junior Minister in the Department of Magical Catastrophes at the time, and I was one of the first on the scene after Black murdered all those people. I — I will never forget it. I still dream about it sometimes. A crater in the middle of the street, so deep it had cracked the sewer below. Bodies everywhere. Muggles screaming. And Black standing there laughing, with what was left of Pettigrew in front of him . . . a heap of bloodstained robes and a few — a few fragments —"
"Well, there you have it, Rosmerta,” said Fudge thickly. “Black was taken away by twenty members of the Magical Law Enforcement Squad and Pettigrew received the Order of Merlin, First Class, which I think was some comfort to his poor mother. Black’s been in Azkaban ever since."
"Is it true he’s mad, Minister?"
"I wish I could say that he was,” said Fudge slowly. “I certainly believe his master’s defeat unhinged him for a while. The murder of Pettigrew and all those Muggles was the action of a cornered and desperate man — cruel . . . pointless. Yet I met Black on my last inspection of Azkaban. You know, most of the prisoners in there sit muttering to themselves in the dark; there’s no sense in them . . . but I was shocked at how normal Black seemed. He spoke quite rationally to me. It was unnerving. You’d have thought he was merely bored — asked if I’d finished with my newspaper, cool as you please, said he missed doing the crossword. Yes, I was astounded at how little effect the dementors seemed to be having on him — and he was one of the most heavily guarded in the place, you know. Dementors outside his door day and night."
"But what do you think he’s broken out to do?” said Madam Rosmerta. “Good gracious, Minister, he isn’t trying to rejoin You-Know-Who, is he?"
"I daresay that is his — er — eventual plan,” said Fudge evasively. “But we hope to catch Black long before that. I must say, You-Know-Who alone and friendless is one thing . . . but give him back his most devoted servant, and I shudder to think how quickly he’ll rise again. . . ."
"You know, Cornelius, if you’re dining with the headmaster, we’d better head back up to the castle,"
"Harry?"
"Harry?"
"It has happened, my Lord . . . the Potters have made me their Secret-Keeper. . . ."
"Harry, you — you look terrible."
"Where is everyone?"
"Gone! It’s the first day of the holidays, remember?” said Ron, watching Harry closely. “It’s nearly lunchtime; I was going to come and wake you up in a minute."
"You really don’t look well, you know,"
"I’m fine,"
"Harry, listen,” said Hermione, exchanging a look with Ron, “you must be really upset about what we heard yesterday. But the thing is, you mustn’t go doing anything stupid."
"Like what?"
"Like trying to go after Black,"
"You won’t, will you, Harry?"
"Because Black’s not worth dying for,"
"D’you know what I see and hear every time a dementor gets too near me?” Ron and Hermione shook their heads, looking apprehensive. “I can hear my mum screaming and pleading with Voldemort. And if you’d heard your mum screaming like that, just about to be killed, you wouldn’t forget it in a hurry. And if you found out someone who was supposed to be a friend of hers betrayed her and sent Voldemort after her —"
"There’s nothing you can do!” said Hermione, looking stricken. “The dementors will catch Black and he’ll go back to Azkaban and — and serve him right!"
"You heard what Fudge said. Black isn’t affected by Azkaban like normal people are. It’s not a punishment for him like it is for the others."
"So what are you saying?” said Ron, looking very tense. “You want to — to kill Black or something?"
"Don’t be silly,” said Hermione in a panicky voice. “Harry doesn’t want to kill anyone, do you, Harry?"
"Malfoy knows,” he said abruptly. “Remember what he said to me in Potions? ‘If it was me, I’d hunt him down myself. . . . I’d want revenge.’"
"You’re going to take Malfoy’s advice instead of ours?” said Ron furiously. “Listen . . . you know what Pettigrew’s mother got back after Black had finished with him? Dad told me — the Order of Merlin, First Class, and Pettigrew’s finger in a box. That was the biggest bit of him they could find. Black’s a madman, Harry, and he’s dangerous —"
"Malfoy’s dad must have told him,” said Harry, ignoring Ron. “He was right in Voldemort’s inner circle —"
"Say You-Know-Who, will you?"
"— so obviously, the Malfoys knew Black was working for Voldemort —"
"— and Malfoy’d love to see you blown into about a million pieces, like Pettigrew! Get a grip. Malfoy’s just hoping you’ll get yourself killed before he has to play you at Quidditch."
"Harry, please,” said Hermione, her eyes now shining with tears, “please be sensible. Black did a terrible, terrible thing, but d-don’t put yourself in danger, it’s what Black wants. . . . Oh, Harry, you’d be playing right into Black’s hands if you went looking for him. Your mum and dad wouldn’t want you to get hurt, would they? They’d never want you to go looking for Black!"
"I’ll never know what they’d have wanted, because thanks to Black, I’ve never spoken to them,"
"Look,” said Ron, obviously casting around for a change of subject, “it’s the holidays! It’s nearly Christmas! Let’s — let’s go down and see Hagrid. We haven’t visited him for ages!"
"No!” said Hermione quickly. “Harry isn’t supposed to leave the castle, Ron —"
"Yeah, let’s go,” said Harry, sitting up, “and I can ask him how come he never mentioned Black when he told me all about my parents!"
"Or we could have a game of chess,” he said hastily, “or Gobstones. Percy left a set —"
"No, let’s visit Hagrid,"
"Stand and fight, you yellow-bellied mongrels!"
"He’s not out, is he?"
"There’s a weird noise,” he said. “Listen — is that Fang?"
"Think we’d better go and get someone?"
"Hagrid!” called Harry, thumping the door. “Hagrid, are you in there?"
"Yeh’ve heard?"
"Hagrid, what is it?"
"What’s this, Hagrid?"
"Well, that’s okay then, Hagrid!"
"Oh,” said Ron. “But you said Buckbeak isn’t a bad hippogriff, Hagrid. I bet he’ll get off —"
"Yeh don’ know them gargoyles at the Committee fer the Disposal o’ Dangerous Creatures!” choked Hagrid, wiping his eyes on his sleeve. “They’ve got it in fer interestin’ creatures!"
"I couldn’ leave him tied up out there in the snow!” choked Hagrid. “All on his own! At Christmas."
"interesting creatures” and other people called “terrifying monsters."
"You’ll have to put up a good strong defense, Hagrid,” said Hermione, sitting down and laying a hand on Hagrid’s massive forearm. “I’m sure you can prove Buckbeak is safe."
"Won’t make no diff’rence!” sobbed Hagrid. “Them Disposal devils, they’re all in Lucius Malfoy’s pocket! Scared o’ him! An’ if I lose the case, Buckbeak —"
"What about Dumbledore, Hagrid?"
"He’s done more’n enough fer me already,” groaned Hagrid. “Got enough on his plate what with keepin’ them dementors outta the castle, an’ Sirius Black lurkin’ around —"
"Listen, Hagrid,” he said, “you can’t give up. Hermione’s right, you just need a good defense. You can call us as witnesses —"
"I’m sure I’ve read about a case of hippogriff-baiting,” said Hermione thoughtfully, “where the hippogriff got off. I’ll look it up for you, Hagrid, and see exactly what happened."
"Er — shall I make a cup of tea?"
"It’s what my mum does whenever someone’s upset,"
"Yer right. I can’ afford to go ter pieces. Gotta pull meself together. . . ."
"I’ve not bin meself lately,” said Hagrid, stroking Fang with one hand and mopping his face with the other. “Worried abou’ Buckbeak, an’ no one likin’ me classes —"
"We do like them!"
"Yeah, they’re great!” said Ron, crossing his fingers under the table. “Er — how are the flobberworms?"
"Dead,” said Hagrid gloomily. “Too much lettuce."
"Oh no!"
"An’ them dementors make me feel ruddy terrible an’ all,” said Hagrid, with a sudden shudder. “Gotta walk past ’em ev’ry time I want a drink in the Three Broomsticks. ’S like bein’ back in Azkaban —"
"Is it awful in there, Hagrid?"
"Yeh’ve no idea,” said Hagrid quietly. “Never bin anywhere like it. Thought I was goin’ mad. Kep’ goin’ over horrible stuff in me mind . . . the day I got expelled from Hogwarts . . . day me dad died . . . day I had ter let Norbert go. . . ."
"Yeh can’ really remember who yeh are after a while. An’ yeh can’ see the point o’ livin’ at all. I used ter hope I’d jus’ die in me sleep. . . . When they let me out, it was like bein’ born again, ev’rythin’ came floodin’ back, it was the bes’ feelin’ in the world. Mind, the dementors weren’t keen on lettin’ me go."
"But you were innocent!"
"Think that matters to them? They don’ care. Long as they’ve got a couple o’ hundred humans stuck there with ’em, so they can leech all the happiness out of ’em, they don’ give a damn who’s guilty an’ who’s not."
"Thought o’ jus’ letting Buckbeak go . . . tryin’ ter make him fly away . . . but how d’yeh explain ter a hippogriff it’s gotta go inter hidin’? An’ — an’ I’m scared o’ breakin’ the law. . . .” He looked up at them, tears leaking down his face again. “I don’ ever want ter go back ter Azkaban."
"Here’s something . . . there was a case in 1722 . . . but the hippogriff was convicted — ugh, look what they did to it, that’s disgusting —"
"This might help, look — a manticore savaged someone in 1296, and they let the manticore off — oh — no, that was only because everyone was too scared to go near it. . . ."
"Oi! Presents!"
"Another sweater from Mum . . . maroon again . . . see if you’ve got one."
"What’s that?"
"Dunno . . ."
"I don’t believe it,"
"Who sent it to you?"
"Look and see if there’s a card,"
"Nothing! Blimey, who’d spend that much on you?"
"Well,” said Harry, feeling stunned, “I’m betting it wasn’t the Dursleys."
"I bet it was Dumbledore,” said Ron, now walking around and around the Firebolt, taking in every glorious inch. “He sent you the Invisibility Cloak anonymously. . . ."
"That was my dad’s, though,” said Harry. “Dumbledore was just passing it on to me. He wouldn’t spend hundreds of Galleons on me. He can’t go giving students stuff like this —"
"That’s why he wouldn’t say it was from him!” said Ron. “In case some git like Malfoy said it was favoritism. Hey, Harry” — Ron gave a great whoop of laughter — “Malfoy! Wait till he sees you on this! He’ll be sick as a pig! This is an international standard broom, this is!"
"I can’t believe this,” Harry muttered, running a hand along the Firebolt, while Ron sank onto Harry’s bed, laughing his head off at the thought of Malfoy. “Who — ?"
"I know,” said Ron, controlling himself, “I know who it could’ve been — Lupin!"
"What?” said Harry, now starting to laugh himself. “Lupin? Listen, if he had this much gold, he’d be able to buy himself some new robes."
"Yeah, but he likes you,” said Ron. “And he was away when your Nimbus got smashed, and he might’ve heard about it and decided to visit Diagon Alley and get this for you —"
"What d’you mean, he was away?” said Harry. “He was ill when I was playing in that match."
"Well, he wasn’t in the hospital wing,” said Ron. “I was there, cleaning out the bedpans on that detention from Snape, remember?"
"I can’t see Lupin affording something like this."
"What’re you two laughing about?"
"Don’t bring him in here!"
"Oh, Harry! Who sent you that?"
"No idea,” said Harry. “There wasn’t a card or anything with it."
"What’s the matter with you?"
"I don’t know,” said Hermione slowly, “but it’s a bit odd, isn’t it? I mean, this is supposed to be quite a good broom, isn’t it?"
"It’s the best broom there is, Hermione,"
"So it must’ve been really expensive. . . ."
"Probably cost more than all the Slytherins’ brooms put together,"
"Well . . . who’d send Harry something as expensive as that, and not even tell him they’d sent it?"
"Who cares?” said Ron impatiently. “Listen, Harry, can I have a go on it? Can I?"
"I don’t think anyone should ride that broom just yet!"
"What d’you think Harry’s going to do with it — sweep the floor?"
"GET — HIM — OUT — OF — HERE!"
"I forgot about that!” Harry said, bending down and picking up the Sneakoscope. “I never wear those socks if I can help it. . . ."
"You’d better take that cat out of here, Hermione,” said Ron furiously, sitting on Harry’s bed nursing his toe. “Can’t you shut that thing up?"
"He’s not looking too good, is he?"
"It’s stress!” said Ron. “He’d be fine if that big stupid furball left him alone!"
"Merry Christmas!” said Dumbledore as Harry, Ron, and Hermione approached the table. “As there are so few of us, it seemed foolish to use the House tables. . . . Sit down, sit down!"
"Crackers!"
"Dig in!"
"Sybill, this is a pleasant surprise!"
"I have been crystal gazing, Headmaster,” said Professor Trelawney in her mistiest, most faraway voice, “and to my astonishment, I saw myself abandoning my solitary luncheon and coming to join you. Who am I to refuse the promptings of fate? I at once hastened from my tower, and I do beg you to forgive my lateness. . . ."
"Certainly, certainly,” said Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. “Let me draw you up a chair —"
"I dare not, Headmaster! If I join the table, we shall be thirteen! Nothing could be more unlucky! Never forget that when thirteen dine together, the first to rise will be the first to die!"
"We’ll risk it, Sybill,” said Professor McGonagall impatiently. “Do sit down, the turkey’s getting stone cold."
"Tripe, Sybill?"
"But where is dear Professor Lupin?"
"I’m afraid the poor fellow is ill again,” said Dumbledore, indicating that everybody should start serving themselves. “Most unfortunate that it should happen on Christmas Day."
"But surely you already knew that, Sybill?"
"Certainly I knew, Minerva,” she said quietly. “But one does not parade the fact that one is All-Knowing. I frequently act as though I am not possessed of the Inner Eye, so as not to make others nervous."
"That explains a great deal,"
"If you must know, Minerva, I have seen that poor Professor Lupin will not be with us for very long. He seems aware, himself, that his time is short. He positively fled when I offered to crystal gaze for him —"
"Imagine that,"
"I doubt,” said Dumbledore, in a cheerful but slightly raised voice, which put an end to Professor McGonagall and Professor Trelawney’s conversation, “that Professor Lupin is in any immediate danger. Severus, you’ve made the potion for him again?"
"Yes, Headmaster,"
"Good,” said Dumbledore. “Then he should be up and about in no time. . . . Derek, have you had any of these chipolatas? They’re excellent."
"My dears! Which of you left his seat first? Which?"
"Dunno,"
"I doubt it will make much difference,” said Professor McGonagall coldly, “unless a mad axe-man is waiting outside the doors to slaughter the first into the entrance hall."
"Coming?"
"No,” Hermione muttered, “I want a quick word with Professor McGonagall."
"Probably trying to see if she can take any more classes,"
"Merry — hic — Christmas! Password?"
"Scurvy cur,"
"And the same to you, sir!"
"So that’s it, is it?” said Professor McGonagall beadily, walking over to the fireside and staring at the Firebolt. “Miss Granger has just informed me that you have been sent a broomstick, Potter."
"May I?” said Professor McGonagall, but she didn’t wait for an answer before pulling the Firebolt out of their hands. She examined it carefully from handle to twig-ends. “Hmm. And there was no note at all, Potter? No card? No message of any kind?"
"No,"
"I see . . . ,” said Professor McGonagall. “Well, I’m afraid I will have to take this, Potter."
"W-what?” said Harry, scrambling to his feet. “Why?"
"It will need to be checked for jinxes,” said Professor McGonagall. “Of course, I’m no expert, but I daresay Madam Hooch and Professor Flitwick will strip it down —"
"Strip it down?"
"It shouldn’t take more than a few weeks,” said Professor McGonagall. “You will have it back if we are sure it is jinx-free."
"There’s nothing wrong with it!” said Harry, his voice shaking slightly. “Honestly, Professor —"
"You can’t know that, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, quite kindly, “not until you’ve flown it, at any rate, and I’m afraid that is out of the question until we are certain that it has not been tampered with. I shall keep you informed."
"What did you go running to McGonagall for?"
"Because I thought — and Professor McGonagall agrees with me — that that broom was probably sent to Harry by Sirius Black!"
"Had a good Christmas?” he said, and then, without waiting for an answer, he sat down, lowered his voice, and said, “I’ve been doing some thinking over Christmas, Harry. After the last match, you know. If the dementors come to the next one . . . I mean . . . we can’t afford you to — well —"
"I’m working on it,” said Harry quickly. “Professor Lupin said he’d train me to ward off the dementors. We should be starting this week. He said he’d have time after Christmas."
"Ah,” said Wood, his expression clearing. “Well, in that case — I really didn’t want to lose you as Seeker, Harry. And have you ordered a new broom yet?"
"No,"
"What! You’d better get a move on, you know — you can’t ride that Shooting Star against Ravenclaw!"
"He got a Firebolt for Christmas,"
"A Firebolt? No! Seriously? A — a real Firebolt?"
"Don’t get excited, Oliver,” said Harry gloomily. “I haven’t got it anymore. It was confiscated."
"Jinxed? How could it be jinxed?"
"Sirius Black,” Harry said wearily. “He’s supposed to be after me. So McGonagall reckons he might have sent it."
"But Black couldn’t have bought a Firebolt! He’s on the run! The whole country’s on the lookout for him! How could he just walk into Quality Quidditch Supplies and buy a broomstick?"
"I know,” said Harry, “but McGonagall still wants to strip it down —"
"I’ll go and talk to her, Harry,” he promised. “I’ll make her see reason. . . . A Firebolt . . . a real Firebolt, on our team . . . She wants Gryffindor to win as much as we do. . . . I’ll make her see sense. A Firebolt . . ."
"Ah yes,” said Lupin, when Harry reminded him of his promise at the end of class. “Let me see . . . how about eight o’clock on Thursday evening? The History of Magic classroom should be large enough. . . . I’ll have to think carefully about how we’re going to do this. . . . We can’t bring a real dementor into the castle to practice on. . . ."
"Still looks ill, doesn’t he?” said Ron as they walked down the corridor, heading to dinner. “What d’you reckon’s the matter with him?"
"tuh"
"And what are you tutting at us for?"
"Nothing,"
"Yes, you were,” said Ron. “I said I wonder what’s wrong with Lupin, and you —"
"Well, isn’t it obvious?"
"If you don’t want to tell us, don’t,"
"Fine,"
"She doesn’t know,” said Ron, staring resentfully after Hermione. “She’s just trying to get us to talk to her again."
"What’s that?"
"Another boggart,” said Lupin, stripping off his cloak. “I’ve been combing the castle ever since Tuesday, and very luckily, I found this one lurking inside Mr. Filch’s filing cabinet. It’s the nearest we’ll get to a real dementor. The boggart will turn into a dementor when he sees you, so we’ll be able to practice on him. I can store him in my office when we’re not using him; there’s a cupboard under my desk he’ll like."
"Okay,"
"So . . .” Professor Lupin had taken out his own wand, and indicated that Harry should do the same. “The spell I am going to try and teach you is highly advanced magic, Harry — well beyond Ordinary Wizarding Level. It is called the Patronus Charm."
"How does it work?"
"Well, when it works correctly, it conjures up a Patronus,” said Lupin, “which is a kind of anti-dementor — a guardian that acts as a shield between you and the dementor."
"The Patronus is a kind of positive force, a projection of the very things that the dementor feeds upon — hope, happiness, the desire to survive — but it cannot feel despair, as real humans can, so the dementors can’t hurt it. But I must warn you, Harry, that the charm might be too advanced for you. Many qualified wizards have difficulty with it."
"What does a Patronus look like?"
"Each one is unique to the wizard who conjures it."
"And how do you conjure it?"
"With an incantation, which will work only if you are concentrating, with all your might, on a single, very happy memory."
"Right,"
"The incantation is this —” Lupin cleared his throat. “Expecto Patronum!"
"Expecto Patronum,” Harry repeated under his breath, “Expecto Patronum."
"Concentrating hard on your happy memory?"
"Oh — yeah —” said Harry, quickly forcing his thoughts back to that first broom ride. “Expecto Patrono — no, Patronum — sorry — Expecto Patronum, Expecto Patronum —"
"Did you see that?” said Harry excitedly. “Something happened!"
"Very good,” said Lupin, smiling. “Right, then — ready to try it on a dementor?"
"Yes,"
"Expecto Patronum!” Harry yelled. “Expecto Patronum! Expecto —"
"Not Harry! Not Harry! Please — I’ll do anything —"
"Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!"
"Harry!"
"Sorry,"
"Are you all right?"
"Yes . . ."
"Here —” Lupin handed him a Chocolate Frog. “Eat this before we try again. I didn’t expect you to do it your first time; in fact, I would have been astounded if you had."
"It’s getting worse,” Harry muttered, biting off the Frog’s head. “I could hear her louder that time — and him — Voldemort —"
"Harry, if you don’t want to continue, I will more than understand —"
"I do!” said Harry fiercely, stuffing the rest of the Chocolate Frog into his mouth. “I’ve got to! What if the dementors turn up at our match against Ravenclaw? I can’t afford to fall off again. If we lose this game we’ve lost the Quidditch Cup!"
"All right then . . . ,” said Lupin. “You might want to select another memory, a happy memory, I mean, to concentrate on. . . . That one doesn’t seem to have been strong enough. . . ."
"Ready?"
"Ready,"
"Go!"
"Expecto Patronum!” Harry yelled. “Expecto Patronum! Expecto Pat —"
"Lily, take Harry and go! It’s him! Go! Run! I’ll hold him off —"
"Harry! Harry . . . wake up. . . ."
"I heard my dad,” Harry mumbled. “That’s the first time I’ve ever heard him — he tried to take on Voldemort himself, to give my mum time to run for it. . . ."
"You heard James?"
"Yeah . . .” Face dry, Harry looked up. “Why — you didn’t know my dad, did you?"
"I — I did, as a matter of fact,” said Lupin. “We were friends at Hogwarts. Listen, Harry — perhaps we should leave it here for tonight. This charm is ridiculously advanced. . . . I shouldn’t have suggested putting you through this. . . ."
"No!” said Harry. He got up again. “I’ll have one more go! I’m not thinking of happy enough things, that’s what it is. . . . Hang on. . . ."
"Ready?” said Lupin, who looked as though he were doing this against his better judgment. “Concentrating hard? All right — go!"
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!” Harry bellowed. “EXPECTO PATRONUM! EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
"Riddikulus!"
"Excellent!” Lupin said, striding over to where Harry sat. “Excellent, Harry! That was definitely a start!"
"Can we have another go? Just one more go?"
"Not now,” said Lupin firmly. “You’ve had enough for one night. Here —"
"Eat the lot, or Madam Pomfrey will be after my blood. Same time next week?"
"Okay,"
"Professor Lupin?” he said. “If you knew my dad, you must’ve known Sirius Black as well."
"What gives you that idea?"
"Nothing — I mean, I just knew they were friends at Hogwarts too. . . ."
"Yes, I knew him,” he said shortly. “Or I thought I did. You’d better be off, Harry, it’s getting late."
"They’re dead,” he told himself sternly. “They’re dead and listening to echoes of them won’t bring them back. You’d better get a grip on yourself if you want that Quidditch Cup."
"How’s she doing it?"
"Doing what?"
"Getting to all her classes!” Ron said. “I heard her talking to Professor Vector, that Arithmancy witch, this morning. They were going on about yesterday’s lesson, but Hermione can’t’ve been there, because she was with us in Care of Magical Creatures! And Ernie Macmillan told me she’s never missed a Muggle Studies class, but half of them are at the same time as Divination, and she’s never missed one of them either!"
"Bad news, Harry. I’ve just been to see Professor McGonagall about the Firebolt. She — er — got a bit shirty with me. Told me I’d got my priorities wrong. Seemed to think I cared more about winning the Cup than I do about you staying alive. Just because I told her I didn’t care if it threw you off, as long as you caught the Snitch first.” Wood shook his head in disbelief. “Honestly, the way she was yelling at me . . . you’d think I’d said something terrible. . . . Then I asked her how much longer she was going to keep it. . . .” He screwed up his face and imitated Professor McGonagall’s severe voice. “‘As long as necessary, Wood’ . . . I reckon it’s time you ordered a new broom, Harry. There’s an order form at the back of Which Broomstick . . . you could get a Nimbus Two Thousand and One, like Malfoy’s got."
"I’m not buying anything Malfoy thinks is good,"
"No, Potter, you can’t have it back yet,” Professor McGonagall told him the twelfth time this happened, before he’d even opened his mouth. “We’ve checked for most of the usual curses, but Professor Flitwick believes the broom might be carrying a Hurling Hex. I shall tell you once we’ve finished checking it. Now, please stop badgering me."
"You’re expecting too much of yourself,” said Professor Lupin sternly in their fourth week of practice. “For a thirteen-year-old wizard, even an indistinct Patronus is a huge achievement. You aren’t passing out anymore, are you?"
"I thought a Patronus would — charge the dementors down or something,” said Harry dispiritedly. “Make them disappear —"
"The true Patronus does do that,” said Lupin. “But you’ve achieved a great deal in a very short space of time. If the dementors put in an appearance at your next Quidditch match, you will be able to keep them at bay long enough to get back to the ground."
"You said it’s harder if there are loads of them,"
"I have complete confidence in you,” said Lupin, smiling. “Here — you’ve earned a drink — something from the Three Broomsticks. You won’t have tried it before —"
"Butterbeer!” said Harry, without thinking. “Yeah, I like that stuff!"
"Oh — Ron and Hermione brought me some back from Hogsmeade,"
"I see,” said Lupin, though he still looked slightly suspicious. “Well — let’s drink to a Gryffindor victory against Ravenclaw! Not that I’m supposed to take sides, as a teacher . . . ,"
"What’s under a dementor’s hood?"
"Hmmm . . . well, the only people who really know are in no condition to tell us. You see, the dementor lowers its hood only to use its last and worst weapon."
"What’s that?"
"They call it the Dementor’s Kiss,” said Lupin, with a slightly twisted smile. “It’s what dementors do to those they wish to destroy utterly. I suppose there must be some kind of mouth under there, because they clamp their jaws upon the mouth of the victim and — and suck out his soul."
"What — they kill — ?"
"Oh no,” said Lupin. “Much worse than that. You can exist without your soul, you know, as long as your brain and heart are still working. But you’ll have no sense of self anymore, no memory, no . . . anything. There’s no chance at all of recovery. You’ll just — exist. As an empty shell. And your soul is gone forever . . . lost."
"It’s the fate that awaits Sirius Black. It was in the Daily Prophet this morning. The Ministry have given the dementors permission to perform it if they find him."
"He deserves it,"
"You think so?” said Lupin lightly. “Do you really think anyone deserves that?"
"Yes,” said Harry defiantly. “For . . . for some things . . ."
"Do watch where you’re going, Potter!"
"Sorry, Professor —"
"I’ve just been looking for you in the Gryffindor common room. Well, here it is, we’ve done everything we could think of, and there doesn’t seem to be anything wrong with it at all. You’ve got a very good friend somewhere, Potter. . . ."
"I can have it back?” Harry said weakly. “Seriously?"
"Seriously,” said Professor McGonagall, and she was actually smiling. “I daresay you’ll need to get the feel of it before Saturday’s match, won’t you? And Potter — do try and win, won’t you? Or we’ll be out of the running for the eighth year in a row, as Professor Snape was kind enough to remind me only last night. . . ."
"She gave it to you? Excellent! Listen, can I still have a go on it? Tomorrow?"
"Yeah . . . anything . . . ,” said Harry, his heart lighter than it had been in a month. “You know what — we should make up with Hermione. . . . She was only trying to help. . . ."
"Yeah, all right,” said Ron. “She’s in the common room now — working, for a change —"
"I wrote them down!” Neville was saying tearfully. “But I must’ve dropped them somewhere!"
"A likely tale!” roared Sir Cadogan. Then, spotting Harry and Ron: “Good even, my fine young yeomen! Come clap this loon in irons. He is trying to force entry to the chambers within!"
"Oh, shut up,"
"I’ve lost the passwords!” Neville told them miserably. “I made him tell me what passwords he was going to use this week, because he keeps changing them, and now I don’t know what I’ve done with them!"
"Oddsbodikins,"
"Where’d you get it, Harry?"
"Will you let me have a go?"
"Have you ridden it yet, Harry?"
"Ravenclaw’ll have no chance, they’re all on Cleansweep Sevens!"
"Can I just hold it, Harry?"
"I got it back,"
"See, Hermione? There wasn’t anything wrong with it!"
"Well — there might have been!” said Hermione. “I mean, at least you know now that it’s safe!"
"Yeah, I suppose so,” said Harry. “I’d better put it upstairs —"
"I’ll take it!” said Ron eagerly. “I’ve got to give Scabbers his rat tonic."
"Can I sit down, then?"
"I suppose so,"
"Explain Why Muggles Need Electricity"
"How are you getting through all this stuff?"
"Oh, well — you know — working hard,"
"Why don’t you just drop a couple of subjects?"
"I couldn’t do that!"
"Arithmancy looks terrible,"
"Oh no, it’s wonderful!” said Hermione earnestly. “It’s my favorite subject! It’s —"
"LOOK!” he bellowed, striding over to Hermione’s table. “LOOK!"
"Ron, what — ?"
"SCABBERS! LOOK! SCABBERS!"
"BLOOD!” Ron yelled into the stunned silence. “HE’S GONE! AND YOU KNOW WHAT WAS ON THE FLOOR?"
"N-no,"
"Okay, side with Ron, I knew you would!” she said shrilly. “First the Firebolt, now Scabbers, everything’s my fault, isn’t it! Just leave me alone, Harry, I’ve got a lot of work to do!"
"Come on, Ron, you were always saying how boring Scabbers was,” said Fred bracingly. “And he’s been off-color for ages, he was wasting away. It was probably better for him to snuff it quickly — one swallow — he probably didn’t feel a thing."
"Fred!"
"All he did was eat and sleep, Ron, you said it yourself,"
"He bit Goyle for us once!” Ron said miserably. “Remember, Harry?"
"Yeah, that’s true,"
"His finest hour,” said Fred, unable to keep a straight face. “Let the scar on Goyle’s finger stand as a lasting tribute to his memory. Oh, come on, Ron, get yourself down to Hogsmeade and buy a new rat, what’s the point of moaning?"
"Great! Can I try and shoot a few goals on it?"
"Look at the balance on it! If the Nimbus series has a fault, it’s a slight list to the tail end — you often find they develop a drag after a few years. They’ve updated the handle too, a bit slimmer than the Cleansweeps, reminds me of the old Silver Arrows — a pity they’ve stopped making them. I learned to fly on one, and a very fine old broom it was too. . . ."
"Er — Madam Hooch? Is it okay if Harry has the Firebolt back? We need to practice. . . ."
"Oh — right — here you are, then, Potter,” said Madam Hooch. “I’ll sit over here with Weasley. . . ."
"Harry, I’ve just found out who Ravenclaw is playing as Seeker. It’s Cho Chang. She’s a fourth year, and she’s pretty good. . . . I really hoped she wouldn’t be fit, she’s had some problems with injuries. . . .” Wood scowled his displeasure that Cho Chang had made a full recovery, then said, “On the other hand, she rides a Comet Two Sixty, which is going to look like a joke next to the Firebolt.” He gave Harry’s broom a look of fervent admiration, then said, “Okay, everyone, let’s go —"
"Harry, I’m letting the Snitch out!"
"I can’t see what’s going to stop us tomorrow!” said Wood. “Not unless — Harry, you’ve sorted out your dementor problem, haven’t you?"
"Yeah,"
"The dementors won’t turn up again, Oliver. Dumbledore’d go ballistic,"
"Well, let’s hope not,” said Wood. “Anyway — good work, everyone. Let’s get back to the tower . . . turn in early —"
"I’m staying out for a bit; Ron wants a go on the Firebolt,"
"Here you go,"
"What’s the matter?"
"Lumos!"
"Get out of here!"
"See?” Ron said furiously, chucking the stone down again. “She’s still letting him wander about wherever he wants — probably washing down Scabbers with a couple of birds now. . . ."
"Did you see his face?” said Ron gleefully, looking back at Malfoy. “He can’t believe it! This is brilliant!"
"Put it here, Harry,"
"Now, now, Penny, no sabotage!” said Percy heartily as she examined the Firebolt closely. “Penelope and I have got a bet on,” he told the team. “Ten Galleons on the outcome of the match!"
"Harry — make sure you win,” said Percy, in an urgent whisper. “I haven’t got ten Galleons. Yes, I’m coming, Penny!"
"Sure you can manage that broom, Potter?"
"Yeah, reckon so,"
"Got plenty of special features, hasn’t it?” said Malfoy, eyes glittering maliciously. “Shame it doesn’t come with a parachute — in case you get too near a dementor."
"Pity you can’t attach an extra arm to yours, Malfoy,” said Harry. “Then it could catch the Snitch for you."
"You know what we’ve got to do,” said Wood as they prepared to leave the locker rooms. “If we lose this match, we’re out of the running. Just — just fly like you did in practice yesterday, and we’ll be okay!"
"Wood, Davies, shake hands,"
"Mount your brooms . . . on my whistle . . . three — two — one —"
"They’re off, and the big excitement this match is the Firebolt that Harry Potter is flying for Gryffindor. According to Which Broomstick, the Firebolt’s going to be the broom of choice for the national teams at this year’s World Championship —"
"Jordan, would you mind telling us what’s going on in the match?"
"Right you are, Professor — just giving a bit of background information — the Firebolt, incidentally, has a built-in auto-brake and —"
"Jordan!"
"Okay, okay, Gryffindor in possession, Katie Bell of Gryffindor heading for goal . . ."
"Show her your acceleration, Harry!"
"Ooooooh"
"Gryffindor leads by eighty points to zero, and look at that Firebolt go! Potter’s really putting it through its paces now, see it turn — Chang’s Comet is just no match for it, the Firebolt’s precision-balance is really noticeable in these long —"
"JORDAN! ARE YOU BEING PAID TO ADVERTISE FIREBOLTS? GET ON WITH THE COMMENTARY!"
"HARRY, THIS IS NO TIME TO BE A GENTLEMAN!” Wood roared as Harry swerved to avoid a collision. “KNOCK HER OFF HER BROOM IF YOU HAVE TO!"
"Oh!"
"Expecto Patronum!"
"That’s my boy!"
"Yes!” Ron yelled, yanking Harry’s arm into the air. “Yes! Yes!"
"Well done, Harry!” said Percy, looking delighted. “Ten Galleons to me! Must find Penelope, excuse me —"
"Good for you, Harry!"
"Ruddy brilliant!"
"That was quite some Patronus,"
"The dementors didn’t affect me at all!” Harry said excitedly. “I didn’t feel a thing!"
"That would be because they — er — weren’t dementors,” said Professor Lupin. “Come and see —"
"You gave Mr. Malfoy quite a fright,"
"An unworthy trick!” she was shouting. “A low and cowardly attempt to sabotage the Gryffindor Seeker! Detention for all of you, and fifty points from Slytherin! I shall be speaking to Professor Dumbledore about this, make no mistake! Ah, here he comes now!"
"Come on, Harry!” said George, fighting his way over. “Party! Gryffindor common room, now!"
"Right,"
"How did you do that?"
"With a little help from Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs,"
"Did you even come to the match?"
"Of course I did,” said Hermione in a strangely high-pitched voice, not looking up. “And I’m very glad we won, and I think you did really well, but I need to read this by Monday."
"Come on, Hermione, come and have some food,"
"I can’t, Harry. I’ve still got four hundred and twenty-two pages to read!” said Hermione, now sounding slightly hysterical. “Anyway . . .” She glanced over at Ron too. “He doesn’t want me to join in."
"If Scabbers hadn’t just been eaten, he could have had some of those Fudge Flies. He used to really like them —"
"Can’t you give her a break?"
"No,” said Ron flatly. “If she just acted like she was sorry — but she’ll never admit she’s wrong, Hermione. She’s still acting like Scabbers has gone on vacation or something."
"AAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGHHHHH! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!"
"What’s going on?"
"Black! Sirius Black! With a knife!"
"What?"
"Here! Just now! Slashed the curtains! Woke me up!"
"You sure you weren’t dreaming, Ron?"
"Look at the curtains! I tell you, he was here!"
"Who shouted?"
"What’re you doing?"
"Are you sure you weren’t dreaming, Ron?"
"I’m telling you, I saw him!"
"What’s all the noise?"
"Professor McGonagall told us to go to bed!"
"Excellent, are we carrying on?"
"Everyone back upstairs!"
"Perce — Sirius Black!” said Ron faintly. “In our dormitory! With a knife! Woke me up!"
"Nonsense!” said Percy, looking startled. “You had too much to eat, Ron — had a nightmare —"
"I’m telling you —"
"Now, really, enough’s enough!"
"I am delighted that Gryffindor won the match, but this is getting ridiculous! Percy, I expected better of you!"
"I certainly didn’t authorize this, Professor!” said Percy, puffing himself up indignantly. “I was just telling them all to get back to bed! My brother Ron here had a nightmare —"
"IT WASN’T A NIGHTMARE!” Ron yelled. “PROFESSOR, I WOKE UP, AND SIRIUS BLACK WAS STANDING OVER ME, HOLDING A KNIFE!"
"Don’t be ridiculous, Weasley, how could he possibly have gotten through the portrait hole?"
"Ask him!” said Ron, pointing a shaking finger at the back of Sir Cadogan’s picture. “Ask him if he saw —"
"Sir Cadogan, did you just let a man enter Gryffindor Tower?"
"Certainly, good lady!"
"You — you did?” said Professor McGonagall. “But — but the password!"
"He had ’em!” said Sir Cadogan proudly. “Had the whole week’s, my lady! Read ’em off a little piece of paper!"
"Which person,” she said, her voice shaking, “which abysmally foolish person wrote down this week’s passwords and left them lying around?"
"D’you reckon we should tell someone?"
"We know he’s not coming in through Honeydukes,” said Ron dismissively. “We’d’ve heard if the shop had been broken into."
"Why, though?” Ron added to Harry as the group of second-year girls who had been listening to his chilling tale departed. “Why did he run?"
"He must’ve known he’d have a job getting back out of the castle once you’d yelled and woken people up,” said Harry thoughtfully. “He’d’ve had to kill the whole House to get back through the portrait hole . . . then he would’ve met the teachers. . . ."
"Run for it, Neville,"
"Ouch! Oh — thanks, Hedwig."
"He probably wants to hear all about Black!"
"All right, Hagrid!” said Ron. “S’pose you want to hear about Saturday night, do you?"
"I’ve already heard all abou’ it,"
"Oh,"
"What are they for, Hagrid?"
"Buckbeak’s case against the Committee fer the Disposal o’ Dangerous Creatures,” said Hagrid. “This Friday. Him an’ me’ll be goin’ down ter London together. I’ve booked two beds on the Knight Bus. . . ."
"I got somethin’ ter discuss with you two,"
"What?"
"Hermione,"
"What about her?"
"She’s in a righ’ state, that’s what. She’s bin comin’ down ter visit me a lot since Chris’mas. Bin feelin’ lonely. Firs’ yeh weren’ talking to her because o’ the Firebolt, now yer not talkin’ to her because her cat —"
"— ate Scabbers!"
"Because her cat acted like all cats do,” Hagrid continued doggedly. “She’s cried a fair few times, yeh know. Goin’ through a rough time at the moment. Bitten off more’n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the work she’s tryin’ ter do. Still found time ter help me with Buckbeak’s case, mind. . . . She’s found some really good stuff fer me . . . reckon he’ll stand a good chance now. . . ."
"Hagrid, we should’ve helped as well — sorry —"
"I’m not blamin’ yeh!” said Hagrid, waving Harry’s apology aside. “Gawd knows yeh’ve had enough ter be gettin’ on with. I’ve seen yeh practicin’ Quidditch ev’ry hour o’ the day an’ night — but I gotta tell yeh, I thought you two’d value yer friend more’n broomsticks or rats. Tha’s all."
"Really upset, she was, when Black nearly stabbed yeh, Ron. She’s got her heart in the right place, Hermione has, an’ you two not talkin’ to her —"
"If she’d just get rid of that cat, I’d speak to her again!” Ron said angrily. “But she’s still sticking up for it! It’s a maniac, and she won’t hear a word against it!"
"Ah, well, people can be a bit stupid abou’ their pets,"
"Hogsmeade, next weekend!” said Ron, craning over the heads to read the new notice. “What d’you reckon?"
"Well, Filch hasn’t done anything about the passage into Honeydukes. . . ."
"Harry!"
"Harry, if you go into Hogsmeade again . . . I’ll tell Professor McGonagall about that map!"
"Can you hear someone talking, Harry?"
"Ron, how can you let him go with you? After what Sirius Black nearly did to you! I mean it, I’ll tell —"
"So now you’re trying to get Harry expelled!” said Ron furiously. “Haven’t you done enough damage this year?"
"So how about it?” Ron said to Harry as though there had been no interruption. “Come on, last time we went you didn’t see anything. You haven’t even been inside Zonko’s yet!"
"Okay,” he said. “But I’m taking the Invisibility Cloak this time."
"’Bye!” Harry called to Ron. “See you when you get back!"
"Dissendium!"
"Harry! I forgot you weren’t going to Hogsmeade either!"
"Hi, Neville,” said Harry, moving swiftly away from the statue and pushing the map back into his pocket. “What are you up to?"
"Nothing,” shrugged Neville. “Want a game of Exploding Snap?"
"Er — not now — I was going to go to the library and do that vampire essay for Lupin —"
"I’ll come with you!” said Neville brightly. “I haven’t done it either!"
"Er — hang on — yeah, I forgot, I finished it last night!"
"Great, you can help me!” said Neville, his round face anxious. “I don’t understand that thing about the garlic at all — do they have to eat it, or —"
"And what are you two doing here?” said Snape, coming to a halt and looking from one to the other. “An odd place to meet —"
"We’re not — meeting here,” said Harry. “We just — met here."
"Indeed?” said Snape. “You have a habit of turning up in unexpected places, Potter, and you are very rarely there for no reason. . . . I suggest the pair of you return to Gryffindor Tower, where you belong."
"It’s me,"
"What kept you?"
"Snape was hanging around. . . ."
"Where are you?” Ron kept muttering out of the corner of his mouth. “Are you still there? This feels weird. . . ."
"Local Deliveries Only"
"Even the Hogwarts ghosts avoid it,” said Ron as they leaned on the fence, looking up at it. “I asked Nearly Headless Nick . . . he says he’s heard a very rough crowd lives here. No one can get in. Fred and George tried, obviously, but all the entrances are sealed shut. . . ."
". . . should have an owl from Father any time now. He had to go to the hearing to tell them about my arm . . . about how I couldn’t use it for three months. . . ."
"I really wish I could hear that great hairy moron trying to defend himself . . . ‘There’s no ’arm in ’im, ’onest —’ . . . that hippogriff’s as good as dead —"
"What are you doing, Weasley?"
"Suppose you’d love to live here, wouldn’t you, Weasley? Dreaming about having your own bedroom? I heard your family all sleep in one room — is that true?"
"Leave him to me,"
"We were just discussing your friend Hagrid,” Malfoy said to Ron. “Just trying to imagine what he’s saying to the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. D’you think he’ll cry when they cut off his hippogriff’s —"
"What the — ?"
"What was that? Who did that?"
"Very haunted up here, isn’t it?"
"It came from over there!"
"AAARGH!"
"Harry!” Ron said, stumbling forward and staring hopelessly at the point where Harry had disappeared, “you’d better run for it! If Malfoy tells anyone — you’d better get back to the castle, quick —"
"See you later,"
"So,"
"Come with me, Potter,"
"Sit,"
"Mr. Malfoy has just been to see me with a strange story, Potter,"
"He tells me that he was up by the Shrieking Shack when he ran into Weasley — apparently alone."
"Mr. Malfoy states that he was standing talking to Weasley, when a large amount of mud hit him in the back of the head. How do you think that could have happened?"
"I don’t know, Professor."
"Mr. Malfoy then saw an extraordinary apparition. Can you imagine what it might have been, Potter?"
"No,"
"It was your head, Potter. Floating in midair."
"Maybe he’d better go to Madam Pomfrey,” said Harry. “If he’s seeing things like —"
"What would your head have been doing in Hogsmeade, Potter?” said Snape softly. “Your head is not allowed in Hogsmeade. No part of your body has permission to be in Hogsmeade."
"I know that,” said Harry, striving to keep his face free of guilt or fear. “It sounds like Malfoy’s having hallucin —"
"Malfoy is not having hallucinations,” snarled Snape, and he bent down, a hand on each arm of Harry’s chair, so that their faces were a foot apart. “If your head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you."
"I’ve been up in Gryffindor Tower,” said Harry. “Like you told —"
"Can anyone confirm that?"
"So,” he said, straightening up again. “Everyone from the Minister of Magic downward has been trying to keep famous Harry Potter safe from Sirius Black. But famous Harry Potter is a law unto himself. Let the ordinary people worry about his safety! Famous Harry Potter goes where he wants to, with no thought for the consequences."
"How extraordinarily like your father you are, Potter,” Snape said suddenly, his eyes glinting. “He too was exceedingly arrogant. A small amount of talent on the Quidditch field made him think he was a cut above the rest of us too. Strutting around the place with his friends and admirers . . . The resemblance between you is uncanny."
"My dad didn’t strut,” said Harry, before he could stop himself. “And neither do I."
"Your father didn’t set much store by rules either,” Snape went on, pressing his advantage, his thin face full of malice. “Rules were for lesser mortals, not Quidditch Cup-winners. His head was so swollen —"
"SHUT UP!"
"What did you say to me, Potter?"
"I told you to shut up about my dad!” Harry yelled. “I know the truth, all right? He saved your life! Dumbledore told me! You wouldn’t even be here if it wasn’t for my dad!"
"And did the headmaster tell you the circumstances in which your father saved my life?” he whispered. “Or did he consider the details too unpleasant for precious Potter’s delicate ears?"
"I would hate for you to run away with a false idea of your father, Potter,” he said, a terrible grin twisting his face. “Have you been imagining some act of glorious heroism? Then let me correct you — your saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing joke on me that would have resulted in my death if your father hadn’t got cold feet at the last moment. There was nothing brave about what he did. He was saving his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke succeeded, he would have been expelled from Hogwarts."
"Turn out your pockets, Potter!"
"Turn out your pockets, or we go straight to the headmaster! Pull them out, Potter!"
"Ron gave them to me,” said Harry, praying he’d get a chance to tip Ron off before Snape saw him. “He — brought them back from Hogsmeade last time —"
"Indeed? And you’ve been carrying them around ever since? How very touching . . . and what is this?"
"Spare bit of parchment,"
"Surely you don’t need such a very old piece of parchment?” he said. “Why don’t I just — throw this away?"
"No!"
"So!” said Snape, his long nostrils quivering. “Is this another treasured gift from Mr. Weasley? Or is it — something else? A letter, perhaps, written in invisible ink? Or — instructions to get into Hogsmeade without passing the dementors?"
"Let me see, let me see . . . ,” he muttered, taking out his wand and smoothing the map out on his desk. “Reveal your secret!"
"Show yourself!"
"Professor Severus Snape, master of this school, commands you to yield the information you conceal!"
"Mr. Moony presents his compliments to Professor Snape, and begs him to keep his abnormally large nose out of other people’s business."
"Mr. Prongs agrees with Mr. Moony, and would like to add that Professor Snape is an ugly git."
"Mr. Padfoot would like to register his astonishment that an idiot like that ever became a professor."
"Mr. Wormtail bids Professor Snape good day, and advises him to wash his hair, the slimeball."
"So . . . ,” said Snape softly. “We’ll see about this. . . ."
"Lupin!” Snape called into the fire. “I want a word!"
"You called, Severus?"
"I certainly did,” said Snape, his face contorted with fury as he strode back to his desk. “I have just asked Potter to empty his pockets. He was carrying this."
"Well?"
"Well?” said Snape again. “This parchment is plainly full of Dark Magic. This is supposed to be your area of expertise, Lupin. Where do you imagine Potter got such a thing?"
"Full of Dark Magic?” he repeated mildly. “Do you really think so, Severus? It looks to me as though it is merely a piece of parchment that insults anybody who reads it. Childish, but surely not dangerous? I imagine Harry got it from a joke shop —"
"Indeed?” said Snape. His jaw had gone rigid with anger. “You think a joke shop could supply him with such a thing? You don’t think it more likely that he got it directly from the manufacturers?"
"You mean, by Mr. Wormtail or one of these people?” he said. “Harry, do you know any of these men?"
"No,"
"You see, Severus?” said Lupin, turning back to Snape. “It looks like a Zonko product to me —"
"I — gave — Harry — that — stuff,” he choked. “Bought — it . . . in Zonko’s . . . ages — ago . . ."
"Well!” said Lupin, clapping his hands together and looking around cheerfully. “That seems to clear that up! Severus, I’ll take this back, shall I?” He folded the map and tucked it inside his robes. “Harry, Ron, come with me, I need a word about my vampire essay — excuse us, Severus —"
"Professor, I —"
"I don’t want to hear explanations,” said Lupin shortly. He glanced around the empty entrance hall and lowered his voice. “I happen to know that this map was confiscated by Mr. Filch many years ago. Yes, I know it’s a map,” he said as Harry and Ron looked amazed. “I don’t want to know how it fell into your possession. I am, however, astounded that you didn’t hand it in. Particularly after what happened the last time a student left information about the castle lying around. And I can’t let you have it back, Harry."
"Why did Snape think I’d got it from the manufacturers?"
"Because . . . ,” Lupin hesitated, “because these mapmakers would have wanted to lure you out of school. They’d think it extremely entertaining."
"Do you know them?"
"We’ve met,"
"Don’t expect me to cover up for you again, Harry. I cannot make you take Sirius Black seriously. But I would have thought that what you have heard when the dementors draw near you would have had more of an effect on you. Your parents gave their lives to keep you alive, Harry. A poor way to repay them — gambling their sacrifice for a bag of magic tricks."
"It’s my fault,” said Ron abruptly. “I persuaded you to go. Lupin’s right, it was stupid, we shouldn’t’ve done it —"
"Come to have a good gloat?” said Ron savagely as she stopped in front of them. “Or have you just been to tell on us?"
"No,” said Hermione. She was holding a letter in her hands and her lip was trembling. “I just thought you ought to know . . . Hagrid lost his case. Buckbeak is going to be executed."
"They can’t do this,” said Harry. “They can’t. Buckbeak isn’t dangerous."
"Malfoy’s dad’s frightened the Committee into it,” said Hermione, wiping her eyes. “You know what he’s like. They’re a bunch of doddery old fools, and they were scared. There’ll be an appeal, though, there always is. Only I can’t see any hope. . . . .Nothing will have changed."
"Yeah, it will,” said Ron fiercely. “You won’t have to do all the work alone this time, Hermione. I’ll help."
"Oh, Ron!"
"Ron, I’m really, really sorry about Scabbers . . . . ,"
"Oh — well — he was old,” said Ron, looking thoroughly relieved that she had let go of him. “And he was a bit useless. You never know, Mum and Dad might get me an owl now."
"S’all my fault. Got all tongue-tied. They was all sittin’ there in black robes an’ I kep’ droppin’ me notes and forgettin’ all them dates yeh looked up fer me, Hermione. An’ then Lucius Malfoy stood up an’ said his bit, and the Committee jus’ did exac’ly what he told ’em. . . ."
"There’s still the appeal!” said Ron fiercely. “Don’t give up yet, we’re working on it!"
"S’no good, Ron,” said Hagrid sadly as they reached the castle steps. “That Committee’s in Lucius Malfoy’s pocket. I’m jus’ gonna make sure the rest o’ Beaky’s time is the happiest he’s ever had. I owe him that. . . ."
"Look at him blubber!"
"Have you ever seen anything quite as pathetic?” said Malfoy. “And he’s supposed to be our teacher!"
"Don’t you dare call Hagrid pathetic, you foul — you evil —"
"Hermione!"
"Get off, Ron!"
"C’mon,"
"Hermione!"
"Harry, you’d better beat him in the Quidditch final!” Hermione said shrilly. “You just better had, because I can’t stand it if Slytherin wins!"
"We’re due in Charms,” said Ron, still goggling at Hermione. “We’d better go."
"You’re late, boys!” said Professor Flitwick reprovingly as Harry opened the classroom door. “Come along, quickly, wands out, we’re experimenting with Cheering Charms today, we’ve already divided into pairs —"
"Where’s Hermione gone?"
"That’s weird,” said Harry, staring at Ron. “Maybe — maybe she went to the bathroom or something?"
"She could’ve done with a Cheering Charm on her too,"
"You don’t think Malfoy did something to her?"
"Flibbertigibbet"
"W-what?” said Hermione, waking with a start and staring wildly around. “Is it time to go? W-which lesson have we got now?"
"Divination, but it’s not for another twenty minutes,” said Harry. “Hermione, why didn’t you come to Charms?"
"What? Oh no!” Hermione squeaked. “I forgot to go to Charms!"
"But how could you forget?” said Harry. “You were with us till we were right outside the classroom!"
"I don’t believe it!” Hermione wailed. “Was Professor Flitwick angry? Oh, it was Malfoy, I was thinking about him and I lost track of things!"
"You know what, Hermione?” said Ron, looking down at the enormous Arithmancy book Hermione had been using as a pillow. “I reckon you’re cracking up. You’re trying to do too much."
"No, I’m not!” said Hermione, brushing her hair out of her eyes and staring hopelessly around for her bag. “I just made a mistake, that’s all! I’d better go and see Professor Flitwick and say sorry. . . . I’ll see you in Divination!"
"I can’t believe I missed Cheering Charms! And I bet they come up in our exams; Professor Flitwick hinted they might!"
"I thought we weren’t starting crystal balls until next term,"
"Don’t complain, this means we’ve finished palmistry,” Harry muttered back. “I was getting sick of her flinching every time she looked at my hands."
"Good day to you!"
"I have decided to introduce the crystal ball a little earlier than I had planned,” said Professor Trelawney, sitting with her back to the fire and gazing around. “The fates have informed me that your examination in June will concern the Orb, and I am anxious to give you sufficient practice."
"Well, honestly . . . ‘the fates have informed her’ . . . who sets the exam? She does! What an amazing prediction!"
"Crystal gazing is a particularly refined art,” she said dreamily. “I do not expect any of you to See when first you peer into the Orb’s infinite depths. We shall start by practicing relaxing the conscious mind and external eyes” — Ron began to snigger uncontrollably and had to stuff his fist in his mouth to stifle the noise — “so as to clear the Inner Eye and the superconscious. Perhaps, if we are lucky, some of you will See before the end of the class."
"This is stupid"
"Seen anything yet?"
"Yeah, there’s a burn on this table,” said Ron, pointing. “Someone’s spilled their candle."
"This is such a waste of time,” Hermione hissed. “I could be practicing something useful. I could be catching up on Cheering Charms —"
"Would anyone like me to help them interpret the shadowy portents within their Orb?"
"I don’t need help,” Ron whispered. “It’s obvious what this means. There’s going to be loads of fog tonight."
"Now, really!” said Professor Trelawney as everyone’s heads turned in their direction. Parvati and Lavender were looking scandalized. “You are disturbing the clairvoyant vibrations!"
"There is something here!” Professor Trelawney whispered, lowering her face to the ball, so that it was reflected twice in her huge glasses. “Something moving . . . but what is it?"
"My dear . . . ,” Professor Trelawney breathed, gazing up at Harry. “It is here, plainer than ever before . . . my dear, stalking toward you, growing ever closer . . . the Gr —"
"Oh, for goodness’ sake!” said Hermione loudly. “Not that ridiculous Grim again!"
"I am sorry to say that from the moment you have arrived in this class, my dear, it has been apparent that you do not have what the noble art of Divination requires. Indeed, I don’t remember ever meeting a student whose mind was so hopelessly mundane."
"Fine!” said Hermione suddenly, getting up and cramming Unfogging the Future back into her bag. “Fine!” she repeated, swinging the bag over her shoulder and almost knocking Ron off his chair. “I give up! I’m leaving!"
"Ooooo!” said Lavender suddenly, making everyone start. “Oooooo, Professor Trelawney, I’ve just remembered! You saw her leaving, didn’t you? Didn’t you, Professor? ‘Around Easter, one of our number will leave us forever!’ You said it ages ago, Professor!"
"Yes, my dear, I did indeed know that Miss Granger would be leaving us. One hopes, however, that one might have mistaken the Signs. . . . The Inner Eye can be a burden, you know. . . ."
"Some day Hermione’s having, eh?"
"Yeah . . ."
"Call this a holiday!” Seamus Finnigan roared at the common room one afternoon. “The exams are ages away, what’re they playing at?"
"So you must catch it only if we’re more than fifty points up,” Wood told Harry constantly. “Only if we’re more than fifty points up, Harry, or we win the match but lose the Cup. You’ve got that, haven’t you? You must catch the Snitch only if we’re —"
"I KNOW, OLIVER!"
"I can’t work, I can’t concentrate,"
"You’re going to be fine,"
"You’ve got a Firebolt!"
"Yeah . . . ,"
"Team! Bed!"
"Where were you? We had to use Neville instead!"
"Ron!” Harry hissed. “Ron! Wake up!"
"Huh?"
"I need you to tell me if you can see something!"
"S’all dark, Harry,” Ron muttered thickly. “What’re you on about?"
"Down here —"
"Good luck, Harry!"
"Okay — no wind to speak of — sun’s a bit bright, that could impair your vision, watch out for it — ground’s fairly hard, good, that’ll give us a fast kickoff —"
"Locker rooms,"
"Okay, it’s time, let’s go —"
"GO GRYFFINDOR!” and “LIONS FOR THE CUP!"
"And here are the Gryffindors!” yelled Lee Jordan, who was acting as commentator as usual. “Potter, Bell, Johnson, Spinnet, Weasley, Weasley, and Wood. Widely acknowledged as the best team Hogwarts has seen in a good few years —"
"boos"
"And here come the Slytherin team, led by Captain Flint. He’s made some changes in the lineup and seems to be going for size rather than skill —"
"Captains, shake hands!"
"Mount your brooms!” said Madam Hooch. “Three . . . two . . . one . . ."
"And it’s Gryffindor in possession, Alicia Spinnet of Gryffindor with the Quaffle, heading straight for the Slytherin goalposts, looking good, Alicia! Argh, no — Quaffle intercepted by Warrington, Warrington of Slytherin tearing up the field — WHAM! — nice Bludger work there by George Weasley, Warrington drops the Quaffle, it’s caught by — Johnson, Gryffindor back in possession, come on, Angelina — nice swerve around Montague — duck, Angelina, that’s a Bludger! — SHE SCORES! TEN–ZERO TO GRYFFINDOR!"
"OUCH!"
"Sorry!” said Flint as the crowd below booed. “Sorry, didn’t see her!"
"That will do!” shrieked Madam Hooch, zooming between them. “Penalty shot to Gryffindor for an unprovoked attack on their Chaser! Penalty shot to Slytherin for deliberate damage to their Chaser!"
"Come off it, miss!"
"Come on, Alicia!” yelled Lee into the silence that had descended on the crowd. “YES! SHE’S BEATEN THE KEEPER! TWENTY–ZERO TO GRYFFINDOR!"
"’Course, Wood’s a superb Keeper!” Lee Jordan told the crowd as Flint waited for Madam Hooch’s whistle. “Superb! Very difficult to pass — very difficult indeed — YES! I DON’T BELIEVE IT! HE’S SAVED IT!"
"Gryffindor in possession, no, Slytherin in possession — no! — Gryffindor back in possession and it’s Katie Bell, Katie Bell for Gryffindor with the Quaffle, she’s streaking up the field — THAT WAS DELIBERATE!"
"THIRTY–ZERO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEATING —"
"Jordan, if you can’t commentate in an unbiased way — !"
"I’m telling it like it is, Professor!"
"Ha haaa!” yelled Lee Jordan as the Slytherin Beaters lurched away from each other, clutching their heads. “Too bad, boys! You’ll need to get up earlier than that to beat a Firebolt! And it’s Gryffindor in possession again, as Johnson takes the Quaffle — Flint alongside her — poke him in the eye, Angelina! — it was a joke, Professor, it was a joke — oh no — Flint in possession, Flint flying toward the Gryffindor goalposts, come on now, Wood, save — !"
"Sorry, Professor, sorry! Won’t happen again! So, Gryffindor in the lead, thirty points to ten, and Gryffindor in possession —"
"YOU DO NOT ATTACK THE KEEPER UNLESS THE QUAFFLE IS WITHIN THE SCORING AREA!” she shrieked at Bole and Derrick. “Gryffindor penalty!"
"You —"
"Penalty! Penalty to Gryffindor! I’ve never seen such tactics!"
"YOU CHEATING SCUM!” Lee Jordan was howling into the megaphone, dancing out of Professor McGonagall’s reach. “YOU FILTHY, CHEATING B —"
"Slytherin in possession, Slytherin heading for goal — Montague scores —” Lee groaned. “Seventy–twenty to Gryffindor. . . ."
"Get out of it, Potter!"
"Angelina Johnson gets the Quaffle for Gryffindor, come on, Angelina, COME ON!"
"AAAAAAARRRGH!"
"SHE SCORES! SHE SCORES! Gryffindor leads by eighty points to twenty!"
"Go! Go! Go!"
"YES!"
"We’ve won the Cup! We’ve won the Cup!"
"Yeh beat ’em, Harry, yeh beat ’em! Wait till I tell Buckbeak!"
"Hermione?” Ron said cautiously, because she was liable to explode when interrupted these days. “Er — are you sure you’ve copied down these times right?"
"What?” snapped Hermione, picking up the exam schedule and examining it. “Yes, of course I have."
"Is there any point asking how you’re going to sit for two exams at once?"
"No,” said Hermione shortly. “Have either of you seen my copy of Numerology and Grammatica?"
"Oh, yeah, I borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading,"
"It’s from Hagrid,” said Harry, ripping the note open. “Buckbeak’s appeal — it’s set for the sixth."
"That’s the day we finish our exams,"
"And they’re coming up here to do it,” said Harry, still reading from the letter. “Someone from the Ministry of Magic and — and an executioner."
"They’re bringing the executioner to the appeal! But that sounds as though they’ve already decided!"
"Yeah, it does,"
"They can’t!” Ron howled. “I’ve spent ages reading up on stuff for him; they can’t just ignore it all!"
"Mine still had a spout for a tail, what a nightmare. . . ."
"Were the tortoises supposed to breathe steam?"
"It still had a willow-patterned shell, d’you think that’ll count against me?"
"Beaky’s gettin’ a bit depressed,” Hagrid told them, bending low on the pretense of checking that Harry’s flobberworm was still alive. “Bin cooped up too long. But still . . . we’ll know day after tomorrow — one way or the other —"
"Excellent, Harry,” Lupin muttered as Harry climbed out of the trunk, grinning. “Full marks."
"Hermione!” said Lupin, startled. “What’s the matter?"
"P-P-Professor McGonagall!” Hermione gasped, pointing into the trunk. “Sh-she said I’d failed everything!"
"Hello there, Harry!” he said. “Just had an exam, I expect? Nearly finished?"
"Yes,"
"Lovely day,” said Fudge, casting an eye over the lake. “Pity . . . pity . . ."
"I’m here on an unpleasant mission, Harry. The Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures required a witness to the execution of a mad hippogriff. As I needed to visit Hogwarts to check on the Black situation, I was asked to step in."
"Does that mean the appeal’s already happened?"
"No, no, it’s scheduled for this afternoon,"
"Then you might not have to witness an execution at all!” said Ron stoutly. “The hippogriff might get off!"
"Dear, dear, I’m getting too old for this. . . . Two o’clock, isn’t it, Fudge?"
"Why’d you stop me?” said Ron angrily as they entered the Great Hall for lunch. “Did you see them? They’ve even got the axe ready! This isn’t justice!"
"Ron, your dad works for the Ministry, you can’t go saying things like that to his boss!” said Hermione, but she too looked very upset. “As long as Hagrid keeps his head this time, and argues his case properly, they can’t possibly execute Buckbeak. . . ."
"She’s seeing us all separately,” Neville informed them as they went to sit down next to him. He had his copy of Unfogging the Future open on his lap at the pages devoted to crystal gazing. “Have either of you ever seen anything in a crystal ball?"
"Nope,"
"What did she ask? Was it okay?"
"She says the crystal ball’s told her that if I tell you, I’ll have a horrible accident!"
"That’s convenient,” snorted Ron. “You know, I’m starting to think Hermione was right about her” — he jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor overhead — “she’s a right old fraud."
"Yeah,” said Harry, looking at his own watch. It was now two o’clock. “Wish she’d hurry up . . ."
"She says I’ve got all the makings of a true Seer,” she informed Harry and Ron. “I saw loads of stuff. . . . Well, good luck!"
"Ronald Weasley,"
"How’d it go?"
"Rubbish,” said Ron. “Couldn’t see a thing, so I made some stuff up. Don’t think she was convinced, though. . . ."
"Meet you in the common room,” Harry muttered as Professor Trelawney’s voice called, “Harry Potter!"
"Good day, my dear,” she said softly. “If you would kindly gaze into the Orb. . . . Take your time, now . . . then tell me what you see within it. . . ."
"Well?” Professor Trelawney prompted delicately. “What do you see?"
"Er —” said Harry, “a dark shape . . . um . . ."
"What does it resemble?” whispered Professor Trelawney. “Think, now . . ."
"A hippogriff,"
"Indeed!” whispered Professor Trelawney, scribbling keenly on the parchment perched upon her knees. “My boy, you may well be seeing the outcome of poor Hagrid’s trouble with the Ministry of Magic! Look closer. . . . Does the hippogriff appear to . . . have its head?"
"Yes,"
"Are you sure?” Professor Trelawney urged him. “Are you quite sure, dear? You don’t see it writhing on the ground, perhaps, and a shadowy figure raising an axe behind it?"
"No!"
"No blood? No weeping Hagrid?"
"No!” said Harry again, wanting more than ever to leave the room and the heat. “It looks fine, it’s — flying away. . . ."
"Well, dear, I think we’ll leave it there. . . . A little disappointing . . . but I’m sure you did your best."
"IT WILL HAPPEN TONIGHT."
"S-sorry?"
"THE DARK LORD LIES ALONE AND FRIENDLESS, ABANDONED BY HIS FOLLOWERS. HIS SERVANT HAS BEEN CHAINED THESE TWELVE YEARS. TONIGHT, BEFORE MIDNIGHT . . . THE SERVANT WILL BREAK FREE AND SET OUT TO REJOIN HIS MASTER. THE DARK LORD WILL RISE AGAIN WITH HIS SERVANT’S AID, GREATER AND MORE TERRIBLE THAN EVER BEFORE. TONIGHT . . . BEFORE MIDNIGHT . . . THE SERVANT . . . WILL SET OUT . . . TO REJOIN . . . HIS MASTER. . . ."
"I’m so sorry, dear boy,” she said dreamily, “the heat of the day, you know . . . I drifted off for a moment. . . ."
"Is there anything wrong, my dear?"
"You — you just told me that the — the Dark Lord’s going to rise again . . . that his servant’s going to go back to him. . . ."
"The Dark Lord? He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? My dear boy, that’s hardly something to joke about. . . . Rise again, indeed —"
"But you just said it! You said the Dark Lord —"
"I think you must have dozed off too, dear!” said Professor Trelawney. “I would certainly not presume to predict anything quite as far-fetched as that!"
"Professor Trelawney,” Harry panted, “just told me —"
"Buckbeak lost,” said Ron weakly. “Hagrid’s just sent this."
"We’ve got to go,” said Harry at once. “He can’t just sit there on his own, waiting for the executioner!"
"Sunset, though,” said Ron, who was staring out the window in a glazed sort of way. “We’d never be allowed . . . ’specially you, Harry. . . ."
"If we only had the Invisibility Cloak. . . ."
"Where is it?"
". . . if Snape sees me anywhere near there again, I’m in serious trouble,"
"That’s true,” said Hermione, getting to her feet. “If he sees you. . . . How do you open the witch’s hump again?"
"You — you tap it and say, ‘Dissendium,’” said Harry. “But —"
"She hasn’t gone to get it?"
"Hermione, I don’t know what’s gotten into you lately!” said Ron, astounded. “First you hit Malfoy, then you walk out on Professor Trelawney —"
"Okay,” she whispered, “no one there — Cloak on —"
"It’s us,” Harry hissed. “We’re wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off."
"Yeh shouldn’ve come!"
"Wan’ some tea?"
"Where’s Buckbeak, Hagrid?"
"I — I took him outside,” said Hagrid, spilling milk all over the table as he filled up the jug. “He’s tethered in me pumpkin patch. Thought he oughta see the trees an’ — an’ smell fresh air — before —"
"I’ll do it, Hagrid,"
"There’s another one in the cupboard,"
"Isn’t there anything anyone can do, Hagrid?” Harry asked fiercely, sitting down next to him. “Dumbledore —"
"He’s tried,” said Hagrid. “He’s got no power ter overrule the Committee. He told ’em Buckbeak’s all right, but they’re scared. . . . Yeh know what Lucius Malfoy’s like . . . threatened ’em, I expect . . . an’ the executioner, Macnair, he’s an old pal o’ Malfoy’s . . . but it’ll be quick an’ clean . . . an’ I’ll be beside him. . . . "
"Dumbledore’s gonna come down while it — while it happens. Wrote me this mornin’. Said he wants ter — ter be with me. Great man, Dumbledore. . . ."
"We’ll stay with you too, Hagrid,"
"Yeh’re ter go back up ter the castle. I told yeh, I don’ wan’ yeh watchin’. An’ yeh shouldn’ be down here anyway. . . . If Fudge an’ Dumbledore catch yeh out without permission, Harry, yeh’ll be in big trouble."
"Ron! I — I don’t believe it — it’s Scabbers!"
"What are you talking about?"
"Scabbers!” said Ron blankly. “Scabbers, what are you doing here?"
"It’s okay, Scabbers!” said Ron. “No cats! There’s nothing here to hurt you!"
"They’re comin’. . . ."
"Yeh gotta go,” said Hagrid. Every inch of him was trembling. “They mustn’ find yeh here. . . . Go now. . . ."
"I’ll let yeh out the back way,"
"It’s okay, Beaky,” said Hagrid softly. “It’s okay . . .” He turned to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “Go on,” he said. “Get goin’."
"Hagrid, we can’t —"
"We’ll tell them what really happened —"
"They can’t kill him —"
"Go!” said Hagrid fiercely. “It’s bad enough without you lot in trouble an’ all!"
"Go quick,” he said hoarsely. “Don’ listen. . . ."
"Please, let’s hurry,” Hermione whispered. “I can’t stand it, I can’t bear it. . . ."
"Oh, please, Ron,"
"It’s Scabbers — he won’t — stay put —"
"Scabbers, it’s me, you idiot, it’s Ron,"
"Oh, Ron, please let’s move, they’re going to do it!"
"Okay — Scabbers, stay put —"
"I can’t hold him — Scabbers, shut up, everyone’ll hear us —"
"They did it!” she whispered to Harry. “I d-don’t believe it — they did it!"
"Hagrid,"
"We can’t,” said Ron, who was paper-white. “He’ll be in worse trouble if they know we’ve been to see him. . . ."
"How — could — they?” she choked. “How could they?"
"Come on,"
"Scabbers, keep still,” Ron hissed, clamping his hand over his chest. The rat was wriggling madly. Ron came to a sudden halt, trying to force Scabbers deeper into his pocket. “What’s the matter with you, you stupid rat? Stay still — OUCH! He bit me!"
"Ron, be quiet!” Hermione whispered urgently. “Fudge’ll be out here in a minute —"
"He won’t — stay — put —"
"What’s the matter with him?"
"Crookshanks!” Hermione moaned. “No, go away, Crookshanks! Go away!"
"Scabbers — NO!"
"Ron!"
"Get away from him — get away — Scabbers, come here —"
"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat —"
"Ron — come on — back under the cloak —” Hermione panted. “Dumbledore — the Minister — they’ll be coming back out in a minute —"
"Lumos!"
"Ron!"
"Harry — we’ve got to go for help —"
"No! That thing’s big enough to eat him; we haven’t got time —"
"We’re never going to get through without help —"
"If that dog can get in, we can,"
"Oh, help, help,” Hermione whispered frantically, dancing uncertainly on the spot, “please . . ."
"Crookshanks!” Hermione whispered uncertainly. She now grasped Harry’s arm painfully hard. “How did he know — ?"
"He’s friends with that dog,” said Harry grimly. “I’ve seen them together. Come on — and keep your wand out —"
"Where’s Ron?"
"This way,"
"Where does this tunnel come out?"
"I don’t know. . . . It’s marked on the Marauder’s Map but Fred and George said no one’s ever gotten into it. . . . It goes off the edge of the map, but it looked like it ends up in Hogsmeade. . . ."
"Harry,” she whispered, “I think we’re in the Shrieking Shack."
"Ghosts didn’t do that,"
"Nox,"
"Ron — are you okay?"
"Where’s the dog?"
"Not a dog,” Ron moaned. His teeth were gritted with pain. “Harry, it’s a trap —"
"What —"
"He’s the dog . . . he’s an Animagus. . . ."
"Expelliarmus!"
"I thought you’d come and help your friend,” he said hoarsely. His voice sounded as though he had long since lost the habit of using it. “Your father would have done the same for me. Brave of you, not to run for a teacher. I’m grateful . . . it will make everything much easier. . . ."
"No, Harry!"
"If you want to kill Harry, you’ll have to kill us too!"
"Lie down,” he said quietly to Ron. “You will damage that leg even more."
"Did you hear me?” Ron said weakly, though he was clinging painfully to Harry to stay upright. “You’ll have to kill all three of us!"
"There’ll be only one murder here tonight,"
"Why’s that?” Harry spat, trying to wrench himself free of Ron and Hermione. “Didn’t care last time, did you? Didn’t mind slaughtering all those Muggles to get at Pettigrew. . . . What’s the matter, gone soft in Azkaban?"
"Harry!” Hermione whimpered. “Be quiet!"
"HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!"
"No,” he hissed, “I’ve waited too long —"
"Argh!"
"NO YOU DON’T!"
"Get out of the way!"
"Going to kill me, Harry?"
"You killed my parents,"
"I don’t deny it,” he said very quietly. “But if you knew the whole story —"
"The whole story?” Harry repeated, a furious pounding in his ears. “You sold them to Voldemort. That’s all I need to know."
"You’ve got to listen to me,” Black said, and there was a note of urgency in his voice now. “You’ll regret it if you don’t. . . . You don’t understand. . . ."
"I understand a lot better than you think,” said Harry, and his voice shook more than ever. “You never heard her, did you? My mum . . . trying to stop Voldemort killing me . . . and you did that . . . you did it. . . ."
"Get off,"
"WE’RE UP HERE!” Hermione screamed suddenly. “WE’RE UP HERE — SIRIUS BLACK — QUICK!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Where is he, Sirius?"
"But then . . . ,” Lupin muttered, staring at Black so intently it seemed he was trying to read his mind, “. . . why hasn’t he shown himself before now? Unless” — Lupin’s eyes suddenly widened, as though he was seeing something beyond Black, something none of the rest could see — “unless he was the one . . . unless you switched . . . without telling me?"
"Professor,” Harry interrupted loudly, “what’s going on — ?"
"I DON’T BELIEVE IT!"
"You — you —"
"Hermione —"
"— you and him!"
"Hermione, calm down —"
"I didn’t tell anyone!” Hermione shrieked. “I’ve been covering up for you —"
"Hermione, listen to me, please!” Lupin shouted. “I can explain —"
"I trusted you,” he shouted at Lupin, his voice wavering out of control, “and all the time you’ve been his friend!"
"You’re wrong,” said Lupin. “I haven’t been Sirius’s friend, but I am now — Let me explain. . . ."
"NO!” Hermione screamed. “Harry, don’t trust him, he’s been helping Black get into the castle, he wants you dead too — he’s a werewolf!"
"Not at all up to your usual standard, Hermione,” he said. “Only one out of three, I’m afraid. I have not been helping Sirius get into the castle and I certainly don’t want Harry dead. . . .” An odd shiver passed over his face. “But I won’t deny that I am a werewolf."
"Get away from me, werewolf!"
"How long have you known?"
"Ages,” Hermione whispered. “Since I did Professor Snape’s essay. . . ."
"He’ll be delighted,” said Lupin coolly. “He assigned that essay hoping someone would realize what my symptoms meant. . . . Did you check the lunar chart and realize that I was always ill at the full moon? Or did you realize that the boggart changed into the moon when it saw me?"
"Both,"
"You’re the cleverest witch of your age I’ve ever met, Hermione."
"I’m not,” Hermione whispered. “If I’d been a bit cleverer, I’d have told everyone what you are!"
"But they already know,” said Lupin. “At least, the staff do."
"Dumbledore hired you when he knew you were a werewolf?” Ron gasped. “Is he mad?"
"Some of the staff thought so,” said Lupin. “He had to work very hard to convince certain teachers that I’m trustworthy —"
"AND HE WAS WRONG!” Harry yelled. “YOU’VE BEEN HELPING HIM ALL THE TIME!"
"I have not been helping Sirius,” said Lupin. “If you’ll give me a chance, I’ll explain. Look —"
"There,” said Lupin, sticking his own wand back into his belt. “You’re armed, we’re not. Now will you listen?"
"If you haven’t been helping him,” he said, with a furious glance at Black, “how did you know he was here?"
"The map,” said Lupin. “The Marauder’s Map. I was in my office examining it —"
"You know how to work it?"
"Of course I know how to work it,” said Lupin, waving his hand impatiently. “I helped write it. I’m Moony — that was my friends’ nickname for me at school."
"You wrote — ?"
"The important thing is, I was watching it carefully this evening, because I had an idea that you, Ron, and Hermione might try and sneak out of the castle to visit Hagrid before his hippogriff was executed. And I was right, wasn’t I?"
"You might have been wearing your father’s old Cloak, Harry —"
"How d’you know about the Cloak?"
"The number of times I saw James disappearing under it . . . ,” said Lupin, waving an impatient hand again. “The point is, even if you’re wearing an Invisibility Cloak, you still show up on the Marauder’s Map. I watched you cross the grounds and enter Hagrid’s hut. Twenty minutes later, you left Hagrid, and set off back toward the castle. But you were now accompanied by somebody else."
"What?” said Harry. “No, we weren’t!"
"I couldn’t believe my eyes,” said Lupin, still pacing, and ignoring Harry’s interruption. “I thought the map must be malfunctioning. How could he be with you?"
"No one was with us!"
"And then I saw another dot, moving fast toward you, labeled Sirius Black. . . . I saw him collide with you; I watched as he pulled two of you into the Whomping Willow —"
"One of us!"
"No, Ron,” said Lupin. “Two of you."
"Do you think I could have a look at the rat?"
"What?” said Ron. “What’s Scabbers got to do with it?"
"Everything,” said Lupin. “Could I see him, please?"
"What?” Ron said again, holding Scabbers close to him, looking scared. “What’s my rat got to do with anything?"
"That’s not a rat,"
"What d’you mean — of course he’s a rat —"
"No, he’s not,” said Lupin quietly. “He’s a wizard."
"An Animagus,” said Black, “by the name of Peter Pettigrew."
"You’re both mental."
"Ridiculous!"
"Peter Pettigrew’s dead!” said Harry. “He killed him twelve years ago!"
"I meant to,” he growled, his yellow teeth bared, “but little Peter got the better of me ... not this time, though!"
"Sirius, NO!” Lupin yelled, launching himself forwards and dragging Black away from Ron again. “WAIT! You can’t do it just like that — they need to understand — we’ve got to explain —"
"We can explain afterwards!"
"They’ve — got — a — right — to — know — everything!” Lupin panted, still trying to restrain Black. “Ron’s kept him as a pet! There are parts of it even I don’t understand! And Harry — you owe Harry the truth, Sirius!"
"All right, then,” Black said, without taking his eyes off the rat. “Tell them whatever you like. But make it quick, Remus. I want to commit the murder I was imprisoned for. . . ."
"You’re nutters, both of you,” said Ron shakily, looking round at Harry and Hermione for support. “I’ve had enough of this. I’m off."
"You’re going to hear me out, Ron,” he said quietly. “Just keep a tight hold on Peter while you listen."
"HE’S NOT PETER, HE’S SCABBERS!"
"There were witnesses who saw Pettigrew die,” he said. “A whole street full of them . . ."
"They didn’t see what they thought they saw!"
"Everyone thought Sirius killed Peter,” said Lupin, nodding. “I believed it myself — until I saw the map tonight. Because the Marauder’s Map never lies . . . Peter’s alive. Ron’s holding him, Harry."
"But Professor Lupin . . . Scabbers can’t be Pettigrew . . . it just can’t be true, you know it can’t . . ."
"Why can’t it be true?"
"Because . . . because people would know if Peter Pettigrew had been an Animagus. We did Animagi in class with Professor McGonagall. And I looked them up when I did my homework — the Ministry of Magic keeps tabs on witches and wizards who can become animals; there’s a register showing what animal they become, and their markings and things . . . and I went and looked Professor McGonagall up on the register, and there have been only seven Animagi this century, and Pettigrew’s name wasn’t on the list —"
"Right again, Hermione!” he said. “But the Ministry never knew that there used to be three unregistered Animagi running around Hogwarts."
"If you’re going to tell them the story, get a move on, Remus,” snarled Black, who was still watching Scabbers’s every desperate move. “I’ve waited twelve years, I’m not going to wait much longer."
"All right . . . but you’ll need to help me, Sirius,” said Lupin, “I only know how it began . . ."
"No one there . . ."
"This place is haunted!"
"It’s not,” said Lupin, still looking at the door in a puzzled way. “The Shrieking Shack was never haunted. . . . The screams and howls the villagers used to hear were made by me."
"That’s where all of this starts — with my becoming a werewolf. None of this could have happened if I hadn’t been bitten . . . and if I hadn’t been so foolhardy. . . ."
"Shh!"
"But then Dumbledore became headmaster, and he was sympathetic. He said that as long as we took certain precautions, there was no reason I shouldn’t come to school. . . .” Lupin sighed, and looked directly at Harry. “I told you, months ago, that the Whomping Willow was planted the year I came to Hogwarts. The truth is that it was planted because I came to Hogwarts. This house” — Lupin looked miserably around the room — “the tunnel that leads to it — they were built for my use. Once a month, I was smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to transform. The tree was placed at the tunnel mouth to stop anyone coming across me while I was dangerous."
"And they didn’t desert me at all. Instead, they did something for me that would make my transformations not only bearable, but the best times of my life. They became Animagi."
"My dad too?"
"Yes, indeed,” said Lupin. “It took them the best part of three years to work out how to do it. Your father and Sirius here were the cleverest students in the school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus transformation can go horribly wrong — one reason the Ministry keeps a close watch on those attempting to do it. Peter needed all the help he could get from James and Sirius. Finally, in our fifth year, they managed it. They could each turn into a different animal at will."
"But how did that help you?"
"They couldn’t keep me company as humans, so they kept me company as animals,” said Lupin. “A werewolf is only a danger to people. They sneaked out of the castle every month under James’s Invisibility Cloak. They transformed . . . Peter, as the smallest, could slip beneath the Willow’s attacking branches and touch the knot that freezes it. They would then slip down the tunnel and join me. Under their influence, I became less dangerous. My body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to become less so while I was with them."
"Hurry up, Remus,"
"I’m getting there, Sirius, I’m getting there . . . well, highly exciting possibilities were open to us now that we could all transform. Soon we were leaving the Shrieking Shack and roaming the school grounds and the village by night. Sirius and James transformed into such large animals, they were able to keep a werewolf in check. I doubt whether any Hogwarts students ever found out more about the Hogwarts grounds and Hogsmeade than we did. . . . And that’s how we came to write the Marauder’s Map, and sign it with our nicknames. Sirius is Padfoot. Peter is Wormtail. James was Prongs."
"What sort of animal — ?"
"That was still really dangerous! Running around in the dark with a werewolf! What if you’d given the others the slip, and bitten somebody?"
"A thought that still haunts me,"
"I sometimes felt guilty about betraying Dumbledore’s trust, of course . . . he had admitted me to Hogwarts when no other headmaster would have done so, and he had no idea I was breaking the rules he had set down for my own and others’ safety. He never knew I had led three fellow students into becoming Animagi illegally. But I always managed to forget my guilty feelings every time we sat down to plan our next month’s adventure. And I haven’t changed. . . ."
"All this year, I have been battling with myself, wondering whether I should tell Dumbledore that Sirius was an Animagus. But I didn’t do it. Why? Because I was too cowardly. It would have meant admitting that I’d betrayed his trust while I was at school, admitting that I’d led others along with me . . . and Dumbledore’s trust has meant everything to me. He let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a job when I have been shunned all my adult life, unable to find paid work because of what I am. And so I convinced myself that Sirius was getting into the school using Dark Arts he learned from Voldemort, that being an Animagus had nothing to do with it . . . so, in a way, Snape’s been right about me all along."
"Snape?” said Black harshly, taking his eyes off Scabbers for the first time in minutes and looking up at Lupin. “What’s Snape got to do with it?"
"He’s here, Sirius,” said Lupin heavily. “He’s teaching here as well."
"Professor Snape was at school with us. He fought very hard against my appointment to the Defense Against the Dark Arts job. He has been telling Dumbledore all year that I am not to be trusted. He has his reasons . . . you see, Sirius here played a trick on him which nearly killed him, a trick which involved me —"
"It served him right,” he sneered. “Sneaking around, trying to find out what we were up to . . . hoping he could get us expelled. . . ."
"Severus was very interested in where I went every month,” Lupin told Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “We were in the same year, you know, and we — er — didn’t like each other very much. He especially disliked James. Jealous, I think, of James’s talent on the Quidditch field . . . anyway, Snape had seen me crossing the grounds with Madam Pomfrey one evening as she led me toward the Whomping Willow to transform. Sirius thought it would be — er — amusing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the knot on the tree trunk with a long stick, and he’d be able to get in after me. Well, of course, Snape tried it — if he’d got as far as this house, he’d have met a fully grown werewolf — but your father, who’d heard what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled him back, at great risk to his life . . . Snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the tunnel. He was forbidden by Dumbledore to tell anybody, but from that time on he knew what I was. . . ."
"So that’s why Snape doesn’t like you,” said Harry slowly, “because he thought you were in on the joke?"
"That’s right,"
"I found this at the base of the Whomping Willow,” said Snape, throwing the Cloak aside, careful to keep his wand pointing directly at Lupin’s chest. “Very useful, Potter, I thank you. . . ."
"You’re wondering, perhaps, how I knew you were here?” he said, his eyes glittering. “I’ve just been to your office, Lupin. You forgot to take your potion tonight, so I took a gobletful along. And very lucky I did . . . lucky for me, I mean. Lying on your desk was a certain map. One glance at it told me all I needed to know. I saw you running along this passageway and out of sight."
"Severus —"
"I’ve told the headmaster again and again that you’re helping your old friend Black into the castle, Lupin, and here’s the proof. Not even I dreamed you would have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout —"
"Severus, you’re making a mistake,” said Lupin urgently. “You haven’t heard everything — I can explain — Sirius is not here to kill Harry —"
"Two more for Azkaban tonight,” said Snape, his eyes now gleaming fanatically. “I shall be interested to see how Dumbledore takes this. . . . He was quite convinced you were harmless, you know, Lupin . . . a tame werewolf —"
"You fool,” said Lupin softly. “Is a schoolboy grudge worth putting an innocent man back inside Azkaban?"
"Give me a reason,” he whispered. “Give me a reason to do it, and I swear I will."
"Professor Snape — it — it wouldn’t hurt to hear what they’ve got to say, w-would it?"
"Miss Granger, you are already facing suspension from this school,” Snape spat. “You, Potter, and Weasley are out-of-bounds, in the company of a convicted murderer and a werewolf. For once in your life, hold your tongue."
"But if — if there was a mistake —"
"KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL!” Snape shouted, looking suddenly quite deranged. “DON’T TALK ABOUT WHAT YOU DON’T UNDERSTAND!"
"Vengeance is very sweet,” Snape breathed at Black. “How I hoped I would be the one to catch you. . . ."
"The joke’s on you again, Severus,” Black snarled. “As long as this boy brings his rat up to the castle” — he jerked his head at Ron — “I’ll come quietly. . . ."
"Up to the castle?” said Snape silkily. “I don’t think we need to go that far. All I have to do is call the dementors once we get out of the Willow. They’ll be very pleased to see you, Black . . . pleased enough to give you a little Kiss, I daresay. . . ."
"You — you’ve got to hear me out,” he croaked. “The rat — look at the rat —"
"Come on, all of you,” he said. He clicked his fingers, and the ends of the cords that bound Lupin flew to his hands. “I’ll drag the werewolf. Perhaps the dementors will have a Kiss for him too —"
"Get out of the way, Potter, you’re in enough trouble already,” snarled Snape. “If I hadn’t been here to save your skin —"
"Professor Lupin could have killed me about a hundred times this year,” Harry said. “I’ve been alone with him loads of times, having defense lessons against the dementors. If he was helping Black, why didn’t he just finish me off then?"
"Don’t ask me to fathom the way a werewolf’s mind works,” hissed Snape. “Get out of the way, Potter."
"YOU’RE PATHETIC!” Harry yelled. “JUST BECAUSE THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT SCHOOL YOU WON’T EVEN LISTEN —"
"SILENCE! I WILL NOT BE SPOKEN TO LIKE THAT!” Snape shrieked, looking madder than ever. “Like father, like son, Potter! I have just saved your neck; you should be thanking me on bended knee! You would have been well served if he’d killed you! You’d have died like your father, too arrogant to believe you might be mistaken in Black — now get out of the way, or I will make you. GET OUT OF THE WAY, POTTER!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"You shouldn’t have done that,” said Black, looking at Harry. “You should have left him to me. . . ."
"We attacked a teacher. . . . We attacked a teacher . . . ,” Hermione whimpered, staring at the lifeless Snape with frightened eyes. “Oh, we’re going to be in so much trouble —"
"Thank you, Harry,"
"I’m still not saying I believe you,"
"Then it’s time we offered you some proof,” said Black. “You, boy — give me Peter. Now."
"Come off it,” he said weakly. “Are you trying to say he broke out of Azkaban just to get his hands on Scabbers? I mean . . .” He looked up at Harry and Hermione for support. “Okay, say Pettigrew could turn into a rat — there are millions of rats — how’s he supposed to know which one he’s after if he was locked up in Azkaban?"
"You know, Sirius, that’s a fair question,” said Lupin, turning to Black and frowning slightly. “How did you find out where he was?"
"How did you get this?"
"Fudge,” said Black. “When he came to inspect Azkaban last year, he gave me his paper. And there was Peter, on the front page . . . on this boy’s shoulder. . . . I knew him at once . . . how many times had I seen him transform? And the caption said the boy would be going back to Hogwarts . . . to where Harry was. . . ."
"My God,” said Lupin softly, staring from Scabbers to the picture in the paper and back again. “His front paw . . ."
"What about it?"
"He’s got a toe missing,"
"Of course,” Lupin breathed. “So simple . . . so brilliant . . . he cut it off himself?"
"Just before he transformed,” said Black. “When I cornered him, he yelled for the whole street to hear that I’d betrayed Lily and James. Then, before I could curse him, he blew apart the street with the wand behind his back, killed everyone within twenty feet of himself — and sped down into the sewer with the other rats. . . ."
"Didn’t you ever hear, Ron?” said Lupin. “The biggest bit of Peter they found was his finger."
"Look, Scabbers probably had a fight with another rat or something! He’s been in my family for ages, right —"
"Twelve years, in fact,” said Lupin. “Didn’t you ever wonder why he was living so long?"
"We — we’ve been taking good care of him!"
"Not looking too good at the moment, though, is he?” said Lupin. “I’d guess he’s been losing weight ever since he heard Sirius was on the loose again. . . ."
"He’s been scared of that mad cat!"
"This cat isn’t mad,” said Black hoarsely. He reached out a bony hand and stroked Crookshanks’s fluffy head. “He’s the most intelligent of his kind I’ve ever met. He recognized Peter for what he was right away. And when he met me, he knew I was no dog. It was a while before he trusted me. . . . Finally, I managed to communicate to him what I was after, and he’s been helping me. . . ."
"What do you mean?"
"He tried to bring Peter to me, but couldn’t . . . so he stole the passwords into Gryffindor Tower for me. . . . As I understand it, he took them from a boy’s bedside table. . . ."
"But Peter got wind of what was going on and ran for it. . . .” croaked Black. “This cat — Crookshanks, did you call him? — told me Peter had left blood on the sheets. . . . I supposed he bit himself. . . . Well, faking his own death had worked once. . . ."
"And why did he fake his death?” he said furiously. “Because he knew you were about to kill him like you killed my parents!"
"No,” said Lupin, “Harry —"
"And now you’ve come to finish him off!"
"Yes, I have,"
"Then I should’ve let Snape take you!"
"Harry,” said Lupin hurriedly, “don’t you see? All this time we’ve thought Sirius betrayed your parents, and Peter tracked him down — but it was the other way around, don’t you see? Peter betrayed your mother and father — Sirius tracked Peter down —"
"THAT’S NOT TRUE!” Harry yelled. “HE WAS THEIR SECRET-KEEPER! HE SAID SO BEFORE YOU TURNED UP. HE SAID HE KILLED THEM!"
"Harry . . . I as good as killed them,” he croaked. “I persuaded Lily and James to change to Peter at the last moment, persuaded them to use him as Secret-Keeper instead of me. . . . I’m to blame, I know it. . . . The night they died, I’d arranged to check on Peter, make sure he was still safe, but when I arrived at his hiding place, he’d gone. Yet there was no sign of a struggle. It didn’t feel right. I was scared. I set out for your parents’ house straightaway. And when I saw their house, destroyed, and their bodies . . . I realized what Peter must’ve done . . . what I’d done. . . ."
"Enough of this,” said Lupin, and there was a steely note in his voice Harry had never heard before. “There’s one certain way to prove what really happened. Ron, give me that rat."
"What are you going to do with him if I give him to you?"
"Force him to show himself,” said Lupin. “If he really is a rat, it won’t hurt him."
"Ready, Sirius?"
"Together?"
"I think so,” said Lupin, holding Scabbers tightly in one hand and his wand in the other. “On the count of three. One — two — THREE!"
"Well, hello, Peter,” said Lupin pleasantly, as though rats frequently erupted into old school friends around him. “Long time, no see."
"S-Sirius . . . R-Remus . . .” Even Pettigrew’s voice was squeaky. Again, his eyes darted toward the door. “My friends . . . my old friends . . ."
"We’ve been having a little chat, Peter, about what happened the night Lily and James died. You might have missed the finer points while you were squeaking around down there on the bed —"
"Remus,” gasped Pettigrew, and Harry could see beads of sweat breaking out over his pasty face, “you don’t believe him, do you . . .? He tried to kill me, Remus. . . ."
"So we’ve heard,” said Lupin, more coldly. “I’d like to clear up one or two little matters with you, Peter, if you’d be so —"
"He’s come to try and kill me again!” Pettigrew squeaked suddenly, pointing at Black, and Harry saw that he used his middle finger, because his index was missing. “He killed Lily and James and now he’s going to kill me too. . . . You’ve got to help me, Remus. . . ."
"No one’s going to try and kill you until we’ve sorted a few things out,"
"Sorted things out?” squealed Pettigrew, looking wildly about him once more, eyes taking in the boarded windows and, again, the only door. “I knew he’d come after me! I knew he’d be back for me! I’ve been waiting for this for twelve years!"
"You knew Sirius was going to break out of Azkaban?” said Lupin, his brow furrowed. “When nobody has ever done it before?"
"He’s got Dark powers the rest of us can only dream of!” Pettigrew shouted shrilly. “How else did he get out of there? I suppose He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named taught him a few tricks!"
"Voldemort, teach me tricks?"
"What, scared to hear your old master’s name?” said Black. “I don’t blame you, Peter. His lot aren’t very happy with you, are they?"
"Don’t know what you mean, Sirius —"
"You haven’t been hiding from me for twelve years,” said Black. “You’ve been hiding from Voldemort’s old supporters. I heard things in Azkaban, Peter. . . . They all think you’re dead, or you’d have to answer to them. . . . I’ve heard them screaming all sorts of things in their sleep. Sounds like they think the double-crosser double-crossed them. Voldemort went to the Potters’ on your information . . . and Voldemort met his downfall there. And not all Voldemort’s supporters ended up in Azkaban, did they? There are still plenty out here, biding their time, pretending they’ve seen the error of their ways. . . . If they ever got wind that you were still alive, Peter —"
"Don’t know . . . what you’re talking about . . . ,” said Pettigrew again, more shrilly than ever. He wiped his face on his sleeve and looked up at Lupin. “You don’t believe this — this madness, Remus —"
"I must admit, Peter, I have difficulty in understanding why an innocent man would want to spend twelve years as a rat,"
"Innocent, but scared!” squealed Pettigrew. “If Voldemort’s supporters were after me, it was because I put one of their best men in Azkaban — the spy, Sirius Black!"
"How dare you,” he growled, sounding suddenly like the bear-sized dog he had been. “I, a spy for Voldemort? When did I ever sneak around people who were stronger and more powerful than myself? But you, Peter — I’ll never understand why I didn’t see you were the spy from the start. You always liked big friends who’d look after you, didn’t you? It used to be us . . . me and Remus . . . and James. . . ."
"Me, a spy . . . must be out of your mind . . . never . . . don’t know how you can say such a —"
"Lily and James only made you Secret-Keeper because I suggested it,” Black hissed, so venomously that Pettigrew took a step backward. “I thought it was the perfect plan . . . a bluff. . . . Voldemort would be sure to come after me, would never dream they’d use a weak, talentless thing like you. . . . It must have been the finest moment of your miserable life, telling Voldemort you could hand him the Potters."
"far-fetched” and “lunacy,"
"Professor Lupin?” said Hermione timidly. “Can — can I say something?"
"Certainly, Hermione,"
"Well — Scabbers — I mean, this — this man — he’s been sleeping in Harry’s dormitory for three years. If he’s working for You-Know-Who, how come he never tried to hurt Harry before now?"
"There!” said Pettigrew shrilly, pointing at Ron with his maimed hand. “Thank you! You see, Remus? I have never hurt a hair of Harry’s head! Why should I?"
"I’ll tell you why,” said Black. “Because you never did anything for anyone unless you could see what was in it for you. Voldemort’s been in hiding for twelve years, they say he’s half dead. You weren’t about to commit murder right under Albus Dumbledore’s nose, for a wreck of a wizard who’d lost all of his power, were you? You’d want to be quite sure he was the biggest bully in the playground before you went back to him, wouldn’t you? Why else did you find a wizard family to take you in? Keeping an ear out for news, weren’t you, Peter? Just in case your old protector regained strength, and it was safe to rejoin him. . . ."
"Er — Mr. Black — Sirius?"
"If you don’t mind me asking, how — how did you get out of Azkaban, if you didn’t use Dark Magic?"
"Thank you!” gasped Pettigrew, nodding frantically at her. “Exactly! Precisely what I —"
"I don’t know how I did it,” he said slowly. “I think the only reason I never lost my mind is that I knew I was innocent. That wasn’t a happy thought, so the dementors couldn’t suck it out of me . . . but it kept me sane and knowing who I am . . . helped me keep my powers . . . so when it all became . . . too much . . . I could transform in my cell . . . become a dog. Dementors can’t see, you know. . . ."
"But then I saw Peter in that picture . . . I realized he was at Hogwarts with Harry . . . perfectly positioned to act, if one hint reached his ears that the Dark Side was gathering strength again. . . ."
"So you see, I had to do something. I was the only one who knew Peter was still alive. . . ."
"The guards say he’s been talking in his sleep . . . always the same words . . . ‘He’s at Hogwarts.’"
"It was as if someone had lit a fire in my head, and the dementors couldn’t destroy it. . . . It wasn’t a happy feeling . . . it was an obsession . . . but it gave me strength, it cleared my mind. So, one night when they opened my door to bring food, I slipped past them as a dog. . . . It’s so much harder for them to sense animal emotions that they were confused. . . . I was thin, very thin . . . thin enough to slip through the bars. . . . I swam as a dog back to the mainland. . . . I journeyed north and slipped into the Hogwarts grounds as a dog. I’ve been living in the forest ever since, except when I came to watch the Quidditch, of course. You fly as well as your father did, Harry. . . ."
"Believe me,” croaked Black. “Believe me, Harry. I never betrayed James and Lily. I would have died before I betrayed them."
"No!"
"Sirius — it’s me . . . it’s Peter . . . your friend . . . you wouldn’t . . ."
"There’s enough filth on my robes without you touching them,"
"Remus!” Pettigrew squeaked, turning to Lupin instead, writhing imploringly in front of him. “You don’t believe this . . . Wouldn’t Sirius have told you they’d changed the plan?"
"Not if he thought I was the spy, Peter,” said Lupin. “I assume that’s why you didn’t tell me, Sirius?"
"Forgive me, Remus,"
"Not at all, Padfoot, old friend,” said Lupin, who was now rolling up his sleeves. “And will you, in turn, forgive me for believing you were the spy?"
"Of course,” said Black, and the ghost of a grin flitted across his gaunt face. He, too, began rolling up his sleeves. “Shall we kill him together?"
"Yes, I think so,"
"You wouldn’t . . . you won’t . . . ,"
"Ron . . . haven’t I been a good friend . . . a good pet? You won’t let them kill me, Ron, will you . . . you’re on my side, aren’t you?"
"I let you sleep in my bed!"
"Kind boy . . . kind master . . .” Pettigrew crawled toward Ron, “you won’t let them do it. . . . I was your rat. . . . I was a good pet. . . ."
"If you made a better rat than a human, it’s not much to boast about, Peter,"
"Sweet girl . . . clever girl . . . you — you won’t let them. . . . Help me. . . ."
"Harry . . . Harry . . . you look just like your father . . . just like him. . . ."
"HOW DARE YOU SPEAK TO HARRY?” roared Black. “HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW DARE YOU TALK ABOUT JAMES IN FRONT OF HIM?"
"Harry,” whispered Pettigrew, shuffling toward him, hands outstretched. “Harry, James wouldn’t have wanted me killed. . . . James would have understood, Harry . . . he would have shown me mercy. . . ."
"You sold Lily and James to Voldemort,” said Black, who was shaking too. “Do you deny it?"
"Sirius, Sirius, what could I have done? The Dark Lord . . . you have no idea . . . he has weapons you can’t imagine. . . . I was scared, Sirius, I was never brave like you and Remus and James. I never meant it to happen. . . . He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named forced me —"
"DON’T LIE!” bellowed Black. “YOU’D BEEN PASSING INFORMATION TO HIM FOR A YEAR BEFORE LILY AND JAMES DIED! YOU WERE HIS SPY!"
"He — he was taking over everywhere!” gasped Pettigrew. “W-what was there to be gained by refusing him?"
"What was there to be gained by fighting the most evil wizard who has ever existed?” said Black, with a terrible fury in his face. “Only innocent lives, Peter!"
"You don’t understand!” whined Pettigrew. “He would have killed me, Sirius!"
"THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE DIED!” roared Black. “DIED RATHER THAN BETRAY YOUR FRIENDS, AS WE WOULD HAVE DONE FOR YOU!"
"You should have realized,” said Lupin quietly, “if Voldemort didn’t kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter."
"NO!” Harry yelled. He ran forward, placing himself in front of Pettigrew, facing the wands. “You can’t kill him,” he said breathlessly. “You can’t."
"Harry, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no parents,” Black snarled. “This cringing bit of filth would have seen you die too, without turning a hair. You heard him. His own stinking skin meant more to him than your whole family."
"I know,” Harry panted. “We’ll take him up to the castle. We’ll hand him over to the dementors. . . . He can go to Azkaban . . . but don’t kill him."
"Harry!” gasped Pettigrew, and he flung his arms around Harry’s knees. “You — thank you — it’s more than I deserve — thank you —"
"Get off me,” Harry spat, throwing Pettigrew’s hands off him in disgust. “I’m not doing this for you. I’m doing it because I don’t reckon my dad would’ve wanted his best friends to become killers — just for you."
"You’re the only person who has the right to decide, Harry,” said Black. “But think . . . think what he did. . . ."
"He can go to Azkaban,” Harry repeated. “If anyone deserves that place, he does. . . ."
"Very well,” said Lupin. “Stand aside, Harry."
"I’m going to tie him up,” said Lupin. “That’s all, I swear."
"But if you transform, Peter,” growled Black, his own wand pointing at Pettigrew too, “we will kill you. You agree, Harry?"
"Right,” said Lupin, suddenly businesslike. “Ron, I can’t mend bones nearly as well as Madam Pomfrey, so I think it’s best if we just strap your leg up until we can get you to the hospital wing."
"Ferula."
"That’s better,” he said. “Thanks."
"What about Professor Snape?"
"There’s nothing seriously wrong with him,” said Lupin, bending over Snape and checking his pulse. “You were just a little — overenthusiastic. Still out cold. Er — perhaps it will be best if we don’t revive him until we’re safely back in the castle. We can take him like this. . . ."
"Mobilicorpus."
"And two of us should be chained to this,” said Black, nudging Pettigrew with his toe. “Just to make sure."
"I’ll do it,"
"And me,"
"You know what this means?” Sirius said abruptly to Harry as they made their slow progress along the tunnel. “Turning Pettigrew in?"
"You’re free,"
"Yes . . . ,” said Sirius. “But I’m also — I don’t know if anyone ever told you — I’m your godfather."
"Yeah, I knew that,"
"Well . . . your parents appointed me your guardian,” said Sirius stiffly. “If anything happened to them . . ."
"I’ll understand, of course, if you want to stay with your aunt and uncle,” said Sirius. “But . . . well . . . think about it. Once my name’s cleared . . . if you wanted a . . . a different home . . ."
"What — live with you?” he said, accidentally cracking his head on a bit of rock protruding from the ceiling. “Leave the Dursleys?"
"Of course, I thought you wouldn’t want to,” said Sirius quickly. “I understand, I just thought I’d —"
"Are you insane?” said Harry, his voice easily as croaky as Sirius’s. “Of course I want to leave the Dursleys! Have you got a house? When can I move in?"
"You want to?” he said. “You mean it?"
"Yeah, I mean it!"
"One wrong move, Peter,"
"Oh, my —” Hermione gasped. “He didn’t take his potion tonight! He’s not safe!"
"Run,” Sirius whispered. “Run. Now."
"Leave it to me — RUN!"
"Expelliarmus!” Harry yelled, pointing his own wand at Pettigrew; Lupin’s wand flew high into the air and out of sight. “Stay where you are!"
"Sirius, he’s gone, Pettigrew transformed!"
"What did he do to him?"
"I don’t know. . . ."
"We’d better get them up to the castle and tell someone,” said Harry, pushing his hair out of his eyes, trying to think straight. “Come —"
"Sirius,"
"Nooo,” he moaned. “Noooo . . . please. . . ."
"Hermione, think of something happy!"
"Expecto Patronum! Expecto Patronum!"
"Expecto Patronum! Hermione, help me! Expecto Patronum!"
"Expecto —” Hermione whispered, “Expecto — Expecto —"
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!” Harry yelled, trying to blot the screaming from his ears. “EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
"Expecto — Expecto Patronum —"
"Expecto Patronum!"
"No — no —” Harry gasped. “He’s innocent . . . Expecto — Expecto Patronum —"
"Thank you, Minister."
"Order of Merlin, Second Class, I’d say. First Class, if I can wangle it!"
"Thank you very much indeed, Minister."
"Nasty cut you’ve got there. . . . Black’s work, I suppose?"
"As a matter of fact, it was Potter, Weasley, and Granger, Minister. . . ."
"No!"
"Black had bewitched them, I saw it immediately. A Confundus Charm, to judge by their behavior. They seemed to think there was a possibility he was innocent. They weren’t responsible for their actions. On the other hand, their interference might have permitted Black to escape. . . . They obviously thought they were going to catch Black single-handed. They’ve got away with a great deal before now. . . . I’m afraid it’s given them a rather high opinion of themselves . . . and of course Potter has always been allowed an extraordinary amount of license by the headmaster —"
"Ah, well, Snape . . . Harry Potter, you know . . . we’ve all got a bit of a blind spot where he’s concerned."
"And yet — is it good for him to be given so much special treatment? Personally, I try and treat him like any other student. And any other student would be suspended — at the very least — for leading his friends into such danger. Consider, Minister — against all school rules — after all the precautions put in place for his protection — out-of-bounds, at night, consorting with a werewolf and a murderer — and I have reason to believe he has been visiting Hogsmeade illegally too —"
"Well, well . . . we shall see, Snape, we shall see. . . . The boy has undoubtedly been foolish. . . ."
"What amazes me most is the behavior of the dementors . . . you’ve really no idea what made them retreat, Snape?"
"No, Minister . . . by the time I had come ’round they were heading back to their positions at the entrances. . . ."
"Extraordinary. And yet Black, and Harry, and the girl —"
"All unconscious by the time I reached them. I bound and gagged Black, naturally, conjured stretchers, and brought them all straight back to the castle."
"Ah, you’re awake!"
"How’s Ron?"
"He’ll live,” said Madam Pomfrey grimly. “As for you two . . . you’ll be staying here until I’m satisfied you’re — Potter, what do you think you’re doing?"
"I need to see the headmaster,"
"Potter,” said Madam Pomfrey soothingly, “it’s all right. They’ve got Black. He’s locked away upstairs. The dementors will be performing the Kiss any moment now —"
"WHAT?"
"Harry, Harry, what’s this?” said Fudge, looking agitated. “You should be in bed — has he had any chocolate?"
"Minister, listen!” Harry said. “Sirius Black’s innocent! Peter Pettigrew faked his own death! We saw him tonight! You can’t let the dementors do that thing to Sirius, he’s —"
"Harry, Harry, you’re very confused, you’ve been through a dreadful ordeal, lie back down, now, we’ve got everything under control. . . ."
"YOU HAVEN’T!” Harry yelled. “YOU’VE GOT THE WRONG MAN!"
"Minister, listen, please,” Hermione said; she had hurried to Harry’s side and was gazing imploringly into Fudge’s face. “I saw him too. It was Ron’s rat, he’s an Animagus, Pettigrew, I mean, and —"
"You see, Minister?” said Snape. “Confunded, both of them. . . . Black’s done a very good job on them. . . ."
"WE’RE NOT CONFUNDED!"
"Minister! Professor!” said Madam Pomfrey angrily. “I must insist that you leave. Potter is my patient, and he should not be distressed!"
"I’m not distressed, I’m trying to tell them what happened!” Harry said furiously. “If they’d just listen —"
"Now, please, Minister, these children need care. Please leave —"
"Professor Dumbledore, Sirius Black —"
"For heaven’s sake!” said Madam Pomfrey hysterically. “Is this a hospital wing or not? Headmaster, I must insist —"
"My apologies, Poppy, but I need a word with Mr. Potter and Miss Granger,” said Dumbledore calmly. “I have just been talking to Sirius Black —"
"I suppose he’s told you the same fairy tale he’s planted in Potter’s mind?” spat Snape. “Something about a rat, and Pettigrew being alive —"
"That, indeed, is Black’s story,"
"And does my evidence count for nothing?” snarled Snape. “Peter Pettigrew was not in the Shrieking Shack, nor did I see any sign of him on the grounds."
"That was because you were knocked out, Professor!” said Hermione earnestly. “You didn’t arrive in time to hear —"
"Miss Granger, HOLD YOUR TONGUE!"
"Now, Snape,” said Fudge, startled, “the young lady is disturbed in her mind, we must make allowances —"
"I would like to speak to Harry and Hermione alone,” said Dumbledore abruptly. “Cornelius, Severus, Poppy — please leave us."
"Headmaster!” sputtered Madam Pomfrey. “They need treatment, they need rest —"
"This cannot wait,” said Dumbledore. “I must insist."
"The dementors should have arrived by now,” he said. “I’ll go and meet them. Dumbledore, I’ll see you upstairs."
"You surely don’t believe a word of Black’s story?"
"I wish to speak to Harry and Hermione alone,"
"Sirius Black showed he was capable of murder at the age of sixteen,” he breathed. “You haven’t forgotten that, Headmaster? You haven’t forgotten that he once tried to kill me?"
"My memory is as good as it ever was, Severus,"
"Professor, Black’s telling the truth — we saw Pettigrew —"
"— he escaped when Professor Lupin turned into a werewolf —"
"— he’s a rat —"
"— Pettigrew’s front paw, I mean, finger, he cut it off —"
"— Pettigrew attacked Ron, it wasn’t Sirius —"
"It is your turn to listen, and I beg you will not interrupt me, because there is very little time,” he said quietly. “There is not a shred of proof to support Black’s story, except your word — and the word of two thirteen-year-old wizards will not convince anybody. A street full of eyewitnesses swore they saw Sirius murder Pettigrew. I myself gave evidence to the Ministry that Sirius had been the Potters’ Secret-Keeper."
"Professor Lupin can tell you —"
"Professor Lupin is currently deep in the forest, unable to tell anyone anything. By the time he is human again, it will be too late, Sirius will be worse than dead. I might add that werewolves are so mistrusted by most of our kind that his support will count for very little — and the fact that he and Sirius are old friends —"
"But —"
"Listen to me, Harry. It is too late, you understand me? You must see that Professor Snape’s version of events is far more convincing than yours."
"He hates Sirius,” Hermione said desperately. “All because of some stupid trick Sirius played on him —"
"Sirius has not acted like an innocent man. The attack on the Fat Lady — entering Gryffindor Tower with a knife — without Pettigrew, alive or dead, we have no chance of overturning Sirius’s sentence."
"But you believe us."
"Yes, I do,” said Dumbledore quietly. “But I have no power to make other men see the truth, or to overrule the Minister of Magic. . . ."
"What we need,” said Dumbledore slowly, and his light blue eyes moved from Harry to Hermione, “is more time."
"But —” Hermione began. And then her eyes became very round. “OH!"
"Now, pay attention,” said Dumbledore, speaking very low, and very clearly. “Sirius is locked in Professor Flitwick’s office on the seventh floor. Thirteenth window from the right of the West Tower. If all goes well, you will be able to save more than one innocent life tonight. But remember this, both of you: You must not be seen. Miss Granger, you know the law — you know what is at stake. . . . You — must — not — be — seen."
"I am going to lock you in. It is —” he consulted his watch, “five minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns should do it. Good luck."
"Good luck?” Harry repeated as the door closed behind Dumbledore. “Three turns? What’s he talking about? What are we supposed to do?"
"Harry, come here,” she said urgently. “Quick!"
"Here —"
"Ready?"
"What are we doing?"
"Hermione, what — ?"
"In here!"
"What — how — Hermione, what happened?"
"We’ve gone back in time,” Hermione whispered, lifting the chain off Harry’s neck in the darkness. “Three hours back . . ."
"But —"
"Shh! Listen! Someone’s coming! I think — I think it might be us!"
"Footsteps across the hall . . . yes, I think it’s us going down to Hagrid’s!"
"Are you telling me,” Harry whispered, “that we’re here in this cupboard and we’re out there too?"
"Yes,” said Hermione, her ear still glued to the cupboard door. “I’m sure it’s us. It doesn’t sound like more than three people . . . and we’re walking slowly because we’re under the Invisibility Cloak —"
"We’ve gone down the front steps. . . ."
"Where did you get that hourglass thing?"
"It’s called a Time-Turner,"
"Harry, I don’t understand what Dumbledore wants us to do. Why did he tell us to go back three hours? How’s that going to help Sirius?"
"There must be something that happened around now he wants us to change,” he said slowly. “What happened? We were walking down to Hagrid’s three hours ago. . . ."
"This is three hours ago, and we are walking down to Hagrid’s,” said Hermione. “We just heard ourselves leaving. . . ."
"Dumbledore just said — just said we could save more than one innocent life. . . .” And then it hit him. “Hermione, we’re going to save Buckbeak!"
"But — how will that help Sirius?"
"Dumbledore said — he just told us where the window is — the window of Flitwick’s office! Where they’ve got Sirius locked up! We’ve got to fly Buckbeak up to the window and rescue Sirius! Sirius can escape on Buckbeak — they can escape together!"
"If we manage that without being seen, it’ll be a miracle!"
"Well, we’ve got to try, haven’t we?"
"Doesn’t sound like anyone’s there. . . . Come on, let’s go. . . ."
"If anyone’s looking out of the window —"
"We’ll run for it,” said Harry determinedly. “Straight into the forest, all right? We’ll have to hide behind a tree or something and keep a lookout —"
"Okay, but we’ll go around by the greenhouses!” said Hermione breathlessly. “We need to keep out of sight of Hagrid’s front door, or we’ll see us! We must be nearly at Hagrid’s by now!"
"Right,” she gasped. “We need to sneak over to Hagrid’s. . . . Keep out of sight, Harry. . . ."
"It’s us. We’re wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off."
"Yeh shouldn’ve come!"
"This is the weirdest thing we’ve ever done,"
"Let’s move along a bit,” Hermione whispered. “We need to get nearer to Buckbeak!"
"Now?"
"No!” said Hermione. “If we steal him now, those Committee people will think Hagrid set him free! We’ve got to wait until they’ve seen he’s tied outside!"
"That’s going to give us about sixty seconds,"
"That’s Hagrid breaking the milk jug,” Hermione whispered. “I’m going to find Scabbers in a moment —"
"Hermione,” said Harry suddenly, “what if we — we just run in there and grab Pettigrew —"
"No!” said Hermione in a terrified whisper. “Don’t you understand? We’re breaking one of the most important Wizarding laws! Nobody’s supposed to change time, nobody! You heard Dumbledore, if we’re seen —"
"We’d only be seen by ourselves and Hagrid!"
"Harry, what do you think you’d do if you saw yourself bursting into Hagrid’s house?"
"I’d — I’d think I’d gone mad,” said Harry, “or I’d think there was some Dark Magic going on —"
"Exactly! You wouldn’t understand, you might even attack yourself! Don’t you see? Professor McGonagall told me what awful things have happened when wizards have meddled with time. . . . Loads of them ended up killing their past or future selves by mistake!"
"Okay!” said Harry. “It was just an idea, I just thought —"
"We’re about to come out!"
"It’s okay, Beaky, it’s okay . . . ,” Hagrid said to Buckbeak. Then he turned to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “Go on. Get goin’."
"Hagrid, we can’t —"
"We’ll tell them what really happened —"
"They can’t kill him —"
"Go! It’s bad enough without you lot in trouble an’ all!"
"Go quick. Don’ listen. . . ."
"Where is the beast?"
"Out — outside,"
"We — er — have to read you the official notice of execution, Hagrid. I’ll make it quick. And then you and Macnair need to sign it. Macnair, you’re supposed to listen too, that’s procedure —"
"Wait here,” Harry whispered to Hermione. “I’ll do it."
"It is the decision of the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures that the hippogriff Buckbeak, hereafter called the condemned, shall be executed on the sixth of June at sundown —"
". . . sentenced to execution by beheading, to be carried out by the Committee’s appointed executioner, Walden Macnair . . ."
"Come on, Buckbeak,” Harry murmured, “come on, we’re going to help you. Quietly . . . quietly . . ."
" . . . as witnessed below. Hagrid, you sign here. . . ."
"Well, let’s get this over with,” said the reedy voice of the Committee member from inside Hagrid’s cabin. “Hagrid, perhaps it will be better if you stay inside —"
"No, I — I wan’ ter be with him. . . . I don’ wan’ him ter be alone —"
"Buckbeak, move!"
"One moment, please, Macnair,” came Dumbledore’s voice. “You need to sign too."
"Harry, hurry!"
"Quick! Quick!"
"Stop!” he whispered to Hermione. “They might hear us —"
"Where is it?” said the reedy voice of the Committee member. “Where is the beast?"
"It was tied here!” said the executioner furiously. “I saw it! Just here!"
"How extraordinary,"
"Beaky!"
"Gone! Gone! Bless his little beak, he’s gone! Musta pulled himself free! Beaky, yeh clever boy!"
"Someone untied him!” the executioner was snarling. “We should search the grounds, the forest —"
"Macnair, if Buckbeak has indeed been stolen, do you really think the thief will have led him away on foot?” said Dumbledore, still sounding amused. “Search the skies, if you will. . . . Hagrid, I could do with a cup of tea. Or a large brandy."
"O’ — o’ course, Professor,” said Hagrid, who sounded weak with happiness. “Come in, come in. . . ."
"Now what?"
"We’ll have to hide in here,” said Hermione, who looked very shaken. “We need to wait until they’ve gone back to the castle. Then we wait until it’s safe to fly Buckbeak up to Sirius’s window. He won’t be there for another couple of hours. . . . Oh, this is going to be difficult. . . ."
"We’re going to have to move,” said Harry, thinking hard. “We’ve got to be able to see the Whomping Willow, or we won’t know what’s going on."
"Okay,” said Hermione, getting a firmer grip on Buckbeak’s rope. “But we’ve got to keep out of sight, Harry, remember. . . ."
"There’s Ron!"
"Get away from him — get away — Scabbers, come here —"
"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat —"
"There’s Sirius!"
"Looks even worse from here, doesn’t it?” said Harry, watching the dog pulling Ron into the roots. “Ouch — look, I just got walloped by the tree — and so did you — this is weird —"
"That was Crookshanks pressing the knot,"
"And there we go . . . ,” Harry muttered. “We’re in."
"Right after we’d gone down into the passage!” said Hermione. “If only Dumbledore had come with us . . ."
"Macnair and Fudge would’ve come too,” said Harry bitterly. “I bet you anything Fudge would’ve told Macnair to murder Sirius on the spot. . . ."
"Here comes Lupin!"
"If he’d only grabbed the Cloak,” said Harry. “It’s just lying there. . . ."
"If I just dashed out now and grabbed it, Snape’d never be able to get it and —"
"Harry, we mustn’t be seen!"
"How can you stand this?” he asked Hermione fiercely. “Just standing here and watching it happen?” He hesitated. “I’m going to grab the Cloak!"
"Harry, no!"
"See?” Hermione whispered. “See what would have happened? We’ve got to keep out of sight! No, Buckbeak!"
"Get your filthy hands off it,"
"Shh!"
"So that’s it,” said Hermione quietly. “We’re all down there . . . and now we’ve just got to wait until we come back up again. . . ."
"Harry, there’s something I don’t understand. . . . Why didn’t the dementors get Sirius? I remember them coming, and then I think I passed out . . . there were so many of them. . . ."
"But what was it?"
"There’s only one thing it could have been, to make the dementors go,” said Harry. “A real Patronus. A powerful one."
"But who conjured it?"
"Didn’t you see what they looked like?” said Hermione eagerly. “Was it one of the teachers?"
"No,” said Harry. “He wasn’t a teacher."
"But it must have been a really powerful wizard, to drive all those dementors away. . . . If the Patronus was shining so brightly, didn’t it light him up? Couldn’t you see — ?"
"Yeah, I saw him,” said Harry slowly. “But . . . maybe I imagined it. . . . I wasn’t thinking straight. . . . I passed out right afterward. . . ."
"Who did you think it was?"
"I think —” Harry swallowed, knowing how strange this was going to sound. “I think it was my dad."
"Harry, your dad’s — well — dead,"
"I know that,"
"You think you saw his ghost?"
"I don’t know . . . no . . . he looked solid. . . ."
"But then —"
"Maybe I was seeing things,” said Harry. “But . . . from what I could see . . . it looked like him. . . . I’ve got photos of him. . . ."
"I know it sounds crazy,"
"Here we come!"
"Harry,” Hermione muttered as though she knew exactly what he was thinking, “we’ve got to stay put. We mustn’t be seen. There’s nothing we can do. . . ."
"So we’re just going to let Pettigrew escape all over again. . . ."
"How do you expect to find a rat in the dark?” snapped Hermione. “There’s nothing we can do! We came back to help Sirius. We’re not supposed to be doing anything else!"
"All right!"
"There goes Lupin,” Hermione whispered. “He’s transforming —"
"Hermione!” said Harry suddenly. “We’ve got to move!"
"We mustn’t, I keep telling you —"
"Not to interfere! Lupin’s going to run into the forest, right at us!"
"Quick!” she moaned, dashing to untie Buckbeak. “Quick! Where are we going to go? Where are we going to hide? The dementors will be coming any moment —"
"Back to Hagrid’s!” Harry said. “It’s empty now — come on!"
"Shh, Fang, it’s us!” said Hermione, hurrying over and scratching his ears to quieten him. “That was really close!"
"Yeah . . ."
"I think I’d better go outside again, you know,” said Harry slowly. “I can’t see what’s going on — we won’t know when it’s time —"
"I’m not going to try and interfere,” said Harry quickly. “But if we don’t see what’s going on, how’re we going to know when it’s time to rescue Sirius?"
"Well . . . okay, then . . . I’ll wait here with Buckbeak . . . but Harry, be careful — there’s a werewolf out there — and the dementors —"
"Come on!” he muttered, staring about. “Where are you? Dad, come on —"
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
"Prongs,"
"What did you do?” she said fiercely. “You said you were only going to keep a lookout!"
"I just saved all our lives . . . ,” said Harry. “Get behind here — behind this bush — I’ll explain."
"Did anyone see you?"
"Yes, haven’t you been listening? I saw me but I thought I was my dad! It’s okay!"
"Harry, I can’t believe it. . . . You conjured up a Patronus that drove away all those dementors! That’s very, very advanced magic. . . ."
"I knew I could do it this time,” said Harry, “because I’d already done it. . . . Does that make sense?"
"I don’t know — Harry, look at Snape!"
"Right, it’s nearly time,” said Hermione tensely, looking at her watch. “We’ve got about forty-five minutes until Dumbledore locks the door to the hospital wing. We’ve got to rescue Sirius and get back into the ward before anybody realizes we’re missing. . . ."
"D’you reckon he’s up there yet?"
"Look!” Hermione whispered. “Who’s that? Someone’s coming back out of the castle!"
"Macnair!” said Harry. “The executioner! He’s gone to get the dementors! This is it, Hermione —"
"Ready?” he whispered to Hermione. “You’d better hold on to me —"
"Oh, no — I don’t like this — oh, I really don’t like this —"
"Whoa!"
"He’s there!"
"Stand back!"
"Alohomora!"
"How — how — ?"
"Get on — there’s not much time,” said Harry, gripping Buckbeak firmly on either side of his sleek neck to hold him steady. “You’ve got to get out of here — the dementors are coming — Macnair’s gone to get them."
"Okay, Buckbeak, up!” said Harry, shaking the rope. “Up to the tower — come on!"
"Sirius, you’d better go, quick,” Harry panted. “They’ll reach Flitwick’s office any moment, they’ll find out you’re gone."
"What happened to the other boy? Ron?"
"He’s going to be okay. He’s still out of it, but Madam Pomfrey says she’ll be able to make him better. Quick — go —"
"How can I ever thank —"
"GO!"
"We’ll see each other again,” he said. “You are — truly your father’s son, Harry. . . ."
"We’ve got exactly ten minutes to get back down to the hospital wing without anybody seeing us — before Dumbledore locks the door —"
"Okay,” said Harry, wrenching his gaze from the sky, “let’s go. . . ."
". . . only hope Dumbledore’s not going to make difficulties,” Snape was saying. “The Kiss will be performed immediately?"
"As soon as Macnair returns with the dementors. This whole Black affair has been highly embarrassing. I can’t tell you how much I’m looking forward to informing the Daily Prophet that we’ve got him at last. . . . I daresay they’ll want to interview you, Snape . . . and once young Harry’s back in his right mind, I expect he’ll want to tell the Prophet exactly how you saved him. . . ."
"Peeves!” Harry muttered, grabbing Hermione’s wrist. “In here!"
"Oh, he’s horrible,” whispered Hermione, her ear to the door. “I bet he’s all excited because the dementors are going to finish off Sirius. . . .” She checked her watch. “Three minutes, Harry!"
"Hermione — what’ll happen — if we don’t get back inside — before Dumbledore locks the door?"
"I don’t want to think about it!” Hermione moaned, checking her watch again. “One minute!"
"Okay — I can hear Dumbledore,” said Hermione tensely. “Come on, Harry!"
"I am going to lock you in,” they heard him saying. “It is five minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns should do it. Good luck."
"Well?"
"We did it!” said Harry breathlessly. “Sirius has gone, on Buckbeak. . . ."
"Well done. I think —” He listened intently for any sound within the hospital wing. “Yes, I think you’ve gone too — get inside — I’ll lock you in —"
"Did I hear the headmaster leaving? Am I allowed to look after my patients now?"
"What was that?"
"Really — they’ll wake everybody up! What do they think they’re doing?"
"He must have Disapparated, Severus. We should have left somebody in the room with him. When this gets out —"
"HE DIDN’T DISAPPARATE!” Snape roared, now very close at hand. “YOU CAN’T APPARATE OR DISAPPARATE INSIDE THIS CASTLE! THIS — HAS — SOMETHING — TO — DO — WITH — POTTER!"
"Severus — be reasonable — Harry has been locked up —"
"OUT WITH IT, POTTER!” he bellowed. “WHAT DID YOU DO?"
"Professor Snape!” shrieked Madam Pomfrey. “Control yourself!"
"See here, Snape, be reasonable,” said Fudge. “This door’s been locked, we just saw —"
"THEY HELPED HIM ESCAPE, I KNOW IT!"
"Calm down, man!” Fudge barked. “You’re talking nonsense!"
"YOU DON’T KNOW POTTER!” shrieked Snape. “HE DID IT, I KNOW HE DID IT —"
"That will do, Severus,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Think about what you are saying. This door has been locked since I left the ward ten minutes ago. Madam Pomfrey, have these students left their beds?"
"Of course not!” said Madam Pomfrey, bristling. “I would have heard them!"
"Well, there you have it, Severus,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Unless you are suggesting that Harry and Hermione are able to be in two places at once, I’m afraid I don’t see any point in troubling them further."
"Fellow seems quite unbalanced,” said Fudge, staring after him. “I’d watch out for him if I were you, Dumbledore."
"Oh, he’s not unbalanced,” said Dumbledore quietly. “He’s just suffered a severe disappointment."
"He’s not the only one!” puffed Fudge. “The Daily Prophet’s going to have a field day! We had Black cornered and he slipped through our fingers yet again! All it needs now is for the story of that hippogriff’s escape to get out, and I’ll be a laughingstock! Well . . . I’d better go and notify the Ministry. . . ."
"And the dementors?” said Dumbledore. “They’ll be removed from the school, I trust?"
"Oh yes, they’ll have to go,” said Fudge, running his fingers distractedly through his hair. “Never dreamed they’d attempt to administer the Kiss on an innocent boy. . . . Completely out of control . . . no, I’ll have them packed off back to Azkaban tonight. . . . Perhaps we should think about dragons at the school entrance. . . ."
"Hagrid would like that,"
"What — what happened?” he groaned. “Harry? Why are we in here? Where’s Sirius? Where’s Lupin? What’s going on?"
"You explain,"
"Know I shouldn’ feel happy, after wha’ happened las’ night,” he said. “I mean, Black escapin’ again, an’ everythin’ — but guess what?"
"What?"
"Beaky! He escaped! He’s free! Bin celebratin’ all night!"
"That’s wonderful!"
"Yeah . . . can’t’ve tied him up properly,” said Hagrid, gazing happily out over the grounds. “I was worried this mornin’, mind . . . thought he mighta met Professor Lupin on the grounds, but Lupin says he never ate anythin’ las’ night. . . ."
"What?"
"Blimey, haven’ yeh heard?” said Hagrid, his smile fading a little. He lowered his voice, even though there was nobody in sight. “Er — Snape told all the Slytherins this mornin’. . . . Thought everyone’d know by now . . . Professor Lupin’s a werewolf, see. An’ he was loose on the grounds las’ night. . . . He’s packin’ now, o’ course."
"He’s packing?” said Harry, alarmed. “Why?"
"Leavin’, isn’ he?” said Hagrid, looking surprised that Harry had to ask. “Resigned firs’ thing this mornin’. Says he can’t risk it happenin’ again."
"I’m going to see him,"
"But if he’s resigned —"
"— doesn’t sound like there’s anything we can do —"
"I don’t care. I still want to see him. I’ll meet you back here."
"I saw you coming,"
"I just saw Hagrid,” said Harry. “And he said you’d resigned. It’s not true, is it?"
"I’m afraid it is,"
"Why?” said Harry. “The Ministry of Magic don’t think you were helping Sirius, do they?"
"No. Professor Dumbledore managed to convince Fudge that I was trying to save your lives.” He sighed. “That was the final straw for Severus. I think the loss of the Order of Merlin hit him hard. So he — er — accidentally let slip that I am a werewolf this morning at breakfast."
"You’re not leaving just because of that!"
"This time tomorrow, the owls will start arriving from parents. . . . They will not want a werewolf teaching their children, Harry. And after last night, I see their point. I could have bitten any of you. . . . That must never happen again."
"You’re the best Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher we’ve ever had!” said Harry. “Don’t go!"
"From what the headmaster told me this morning, you saved a lot of lives last night, Harry. If I’m proud of anything, it’s how much you’ve learned. . . . Tell me about your Patronus."
"How d’you know about that?"
"What else could have driven the dementors back?"
"Yes, your father was always a stag when he transformed,” he said. “You guessed right . . . that’s why we called him Prongs."
"Here — I brought this from the Shrieking Shack last night,” he said, handing Harry back the Invisibility Cloak. “And . . .” He hesitated, then held out the Marauder’s Map too. “I am no longer your teacher, so I don’t feel guilty about giving you this back as well. It’s no use to me, and I daresay you, Ron, and Hermione will find uses for it."
"You told me Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs would’ve wanted to lure me out of school . . . you said they’d have thought it was funny."
"And so we would have,” said Lupin, now reaching down to close his case. “I have no hesitation in saying that James would have been highly disappointed if his son had never found any of the secret passages out of the castle."
"Your carriage is at the gates, Remus,"
"Thank you, Headmaster."
"Well — good-bye, Harry,” he said, smiling. “It has been a real pleasure teaching you. I feel sure we’ll meet again sometime. Headmaster, there is no need to see me to the gates, I can manage. . . ."
"Good-bye, then, Remus,"
"Why so miserable, Harry?” he said quietly. “You should be very proud of yourself after last night."
"It didn’t make any difference,” said Harry bitterly. “Pettigrew got away."
"Didn’t make any difference?” said Dumbledore quietly. “It made all the difference in the world, Harry. You helped uncover the truth. You saved an innocent man from a terrible fate."
"Professor Dumbledore — yesterday, when I was having my Divination exam, Professor Trelawney went very — very strange."
"Indeed?” said Dumbledore. “Er — stranger than usual, you mean?"
"Yes . . . her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled and she said . . . she said Voldemort’s servant was going to set out to return to him before midnight. . . . She said the servant would help him come back to power.” Harry stared up at Dumbledore. “And then she sort of became normal again, and she couldn’t remember anything she’d said. Was it — was she making a real prediction?"
"Do you know, Harry, I think she might have been,” he said thoughtfully. “Who’d have thought it? That brings her total of real predictions up to two. I should offer her a pay raise. . . ."
"But —"
"But — I stopped Sirius and Professor Lupin from killing Pettigrew! That makes it my fault if Voldemort comes back!"
"It does not,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Hasn’t your experience with the Time-Turner taught you anything, Harry? The consequences of our actions are always so complicated, so diverse, that predicting the future is a very difficult business indeed. . . . Professor Trelawney, bless her, is living proof of that. . . . You did a very noble thing, in saving Pettigrew’s life."
"But if he helps Voldemort back to power — !"
"Pettigrew owes his life to you. You have sent Voldemort a deputy who is in your debt. When one wizard saves another wizard’s life, it creates a certain bond between them . . . and I’m much mistaken if Voldemort wants his servant in the debt of Harry Potter."
"I don’t want a bond with Pettigrew!” said Harry. “He betrayed my parents!"
"This is magic at its deepest, its most impenetrable, Harry. But trust me . . . the time may come when you will be very glad you saved Pettigrew’s life."
"I knew your father very well, both at Hogwarts and later, Harry,” he said gently. “He would have saved Pettigrew too, I am sure of it."
"Last night . . . I thought it was my dad who’d conjured my Patronus. I mean, when I saw myself across the lake . . . I thought I was seeing him."
"An easy mistake to make,” said Dumbledore softly. “I expect you’ll tire of hearing it, but you do look extraordinarily like James. Except for the eyes . . . you have your mother’s eyes."
"It was stupid, thinking it was him,” he muttered. “I mean, I knew he was dead."
"You think the dead we have loved ever truly leave us? You think that we don’t recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble? Your father is alive in you, Harry, and shows himself most plainly when you have need of him. How else could you produce that particular Patronus? Prongs rode again last night."
"Last night Sirius told me all about how they became Animagi,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “An extraordinary achievement — not least, keeping it quiet from me. And then I remembered the most unusual form your Patronus took, when it charged Mr. Malfoy down at your Quidditch match against Ravenclaw. So you did see your father last night, Harry. . . . You found him inside yourself."
"If I manage to get into the Ministry, I’ll have a lot of proposals to make about Magical Law Enforcement!"
"Wonder what they’ll give us next year?"
"Maybe a vampire,"
"I went to see Professor McGonagall this morning, just before breakfast. I’ve decided to drop Muggle Studies."
"But you passed your exam with three hundred and twenty percent!"
"I know,” sighed Hermione, “but I can’t stand another year like this one. That Time-Turner, it was driving me mad. I’ve handed it in. Without Muggle Studies and Divination, I’ll be able to have a normal schedule again."
"I still can’t believe you didn’t tell us about it,” said Ron grumpily. “We’re supposed to be your friends."
"I promised I wouldn’t tell anyone,"
"Oh, cheer up, Harry!"
"I’m okay,” said Harry quickly. “Just thinking about the holidays."
"Yeah, I’ve been thinking about them too,” said Ron. “Harry, you’ve got to come and stay with us. I’ll fix it up with Mum and Dad, then I’ll call you. I know how to use a fellytone now —"
"A telephone, Ron,” said Hermione. “Honestly, you should take Muggle Studies next year. . . ."
"It’s the Quidditch World Cup this summer! How about it, Harry? Come and stay, and we’ll go and see it! Dad can usually get tickets from work."
"Yeah . . . I bet the Dursleys’d be pleased to let me come . . . especially after what I did to Aunt Marge. . . ."
"Harry,” said Hermione suddenly, peering over his shoulder. “What’s that thing outside your window?"
"It’s from Sirius!"
"What?” said Ron and Hermione excitedly. “Read it aloud!"
"Ha!” said Hermione triumphantly. “See! I told you it was from him!"
"Yes, but he hadn’t jinxed it, had he?” said Ron. “Ouch!"
"That’ll be good enough for Dumbledore!"
"Hang on, there’s a P.S. . . ."
"Keep him?"
"What d’you reckon?” Ron asked the cat. “Definitely an owl?"
"That’s good enough for me,” said Ron happily. “He’s mine."
"I’ll call about the World Cup!"
"What’s that?” he snarled, staring at the envelope Harry was still clutching in his hand. “If it’s another form for me to sign, you’ve got another —"
"It’s not,” said Harry cheerfully. “It’s a letter from my godfather."
"Godfather?” spluttered Uncle Vernon. “You haven’t got a godfather!"
"Yes, I have,” said Harry brightly. “He was my mum and dad’s best friend. He’s a convicted murderer, but he’s broken out of Wizard prison and he’s on the run. He likes to keep in touch with me, though . . . keep up with my news . . . check if I’m happy. . . ."
"the Riddle House,"
"creepy."
"Lying there with their eyes wide open! Cold as ice! Still in their dinner things!"
"Frank!” cried several people. “Never!"
"Always thought he was odd,” she told the eagerly listening villagers, after her fourth sherry. “Unfriendly, like. I’m sure if I’ve offered him a cuppa once, I’ve offered it a hundred times. Never wanted to mix, he didn’t."
"Ah, now,” said a woman at the bar, “he had a hard war, Frank. He likes the quiet life. That’s no reason to —"
"Who else had a key to the back door, then?” barked the cook. “There’s been a spare key hanging in the gardener’s cottage far back as I can remember! Nobody forced the door last night! No broken windows! All Frank had to do was creep up to the big house while we was all sleeping. . . ."
"I always thought he had a nasty look about him, right enough,"
"War turned him funny, if you ask me,"
"Told you I wouldn’t like to get on the wrong side of Frank, didn’t I, Dot?"
"Horrible temper,” said Dot, nodding fervently. “I remember, when he was a kid . . ."
"’S far as I’m concerned, he killed them, and I don’t care what the police say,” said Dot in the Hanged Man. “And if he had any decency, he’d leave here, knowing as how we knows he did it."
"tax reasons,"
"There is a little more in the bottle, my Lord, if you are still hungry."
"Later,” said a second voice. This too belonged to a man — but it was strangely high-pitched, and cold as a sudden blast of icy wind. Something about that voice made the sparse hairs on the back of Frank’s neck stand up. “Move me closer to the fire, Wormtail."
"Where is Nagini?"
"I — I don’t know, my Lord,” said the first voice nervously. “She set out to explore the house, I think. . . ."
"You will milk her before we retire, Wormtail,” said the second voice. “I will need feeding in the night. The journey has tired me greatly."
"My Lord, may I ask how long we are going to stay here?"
"A week,” said the cold voice. “Perhaps longer. The place is moderately comfortable, and the plan cannot proceed yet. It would be foolish to act before the Quidditch World Cup is over."
"Quidditch,"
"The — the Quidditch World Cup, my Lord?” said Wormtail. (Frank dug his finger still more vigorously into his ear.) “Forgive me, but — I do not understand — why should we wait until the World Cup is over?"
"Because, fool, at this very moment wizards are pouring into the country from all over the world, and every meddler from the Ministry of Magic will be on duty, on the watch for signs of unusual activity, checking and double-checking identities. They will be obsessed with security, lest the Muggles notice anything. So we wait."
"Ministry of Magic,” “wizards,” and “Muggles."
"Your Lordship is still determined, then?"
"Certainly I am determined, Wormtail."
"It could be done without Harry Potter, my Lord."
"Without Harry Potter?” breathed the second voice softly. “I see . . ."
"My Lord, I do not say this out of concern for the boy!” said Wormtail, his voice rising squeakily. “The boy is nothing to me, nothing at all! It is merely that if we were to use another witch or wizard — any wizard — the thing could be done so much more quickly! If you allowed me to leave you for a short while — you know that I can disguise myself most effectively — I could be back here in as little as two days with a suitable person —"
"I could use another wizard,” said the cold voice softly, “that is true. . . ."
"My Lord, it makes sense,” said Wormtail, sounding thoroughly relieved now. “Laying hands on Harry Potter would be so difficult, he is so well protected —"
"And so you volunteer to go and fetch me a substitute? I wonder . . . perhaps the task of nursing me has become wearisome for you, Wormtail? Could this suggestion of abandoning the plan be nothing more than an attempt to desert me?"
"My Lord! I — I have no wish to leave you, none at all —"
"Do not lie to me!” hissed the second voice. “I can always tell, Wormtail! You are regretting that you ever returned to me. I revolt you. I see you flinch when you look at me, feel you shudder when you touch me. . . ."
"No! My devotion to Your Lordship —"
"Your devotion is nothing more than cowardice. You would not be here if you had anywhere else to go. How am I to survive without you, when I need feeding every few hours? Who is to milk Nagini?"
"But you seem so much stronger, my Lord —"
"Liar,” breathed the second voice. “I am no stronger, and a few days alone would be enough to rob me of the little health I have regained under your clumsy care. Silence!"
"I have my reasons for using the boy, as I have already explained to you, and I will use no other. I have waited thirteen years. A few more months will make no difference. As for the protection surrounding the boy, I believe my plan will be effective. All that is needed is a little courage from you, Wormtail — courage you will find, unless you wish to feel the full extent of Lord Voldemort’s wrath —"
"My Lord, I must speak!” said Wormtail, panic in his voice now. “All through our journey I have gone over the plan in my head — my Lord, Bertha Jorkins’s disappearance will not go unnoticed for long, and if we proceed, if I murder —"
"If?” whispered the second voice. “If? If you follow the plan, Wormtail, the Ministry need never know that anyone else has died. You will do it quietly and without fuss; I only wish that I could do it myself, but in my present condition . . . Come, Wormtail, one more death and our path to Harry Potter is clear. I am not asking you to do it alone. By that time, my faithful servant will have rejoined us —"
"I am a faithful servant,"
"Wormtail, I need somebody with brains, somebody whose loyalty has never wavered, and you, unfortunately, fulfill neither requirement."
"I found you,” said Wormtail, and there was definitely a sulky edge to his voice now. “I was the one who found you. I brought you Bertha Jorkins."
"That is true,” said the second man, sounding amused. “A stroke of brilliance I would not have thought possible from you, Wormtail — though, if truth be told, you were not aware how useful she would be when you caught her, were you?"
"I — I thought she might be useful, my Lord —"
"Liar,” said the second voice again, the cruel amusement more pronounced than ever. “However, I do not deny that her information was invaluable. Without it, I could never have formed our plan, and for that, you will have your reward, Wormtail. I will allow you to perform an essential task for me, one that many of my followers would give their right hands to perform. . . ."
"R-really, my Lord? What — ?"
"Ah, Wormtail, you don’t want me to spoil the surprise? Your part will come at the very end . . . but I promise you, you will have the honor of being just as useful as Bertha Jorkins."
"You . . . you . . .” Wormtail’s voice suddenly sounded hoarse, as though his mouth had gone very dry. “You . . . are going . . . to kill me too?"
"Wormtail, Wormtail,” said the cold voice silkily, “why would I kill you? I killed Bertha because I had to. She was fit for nothing after my questioning, quite useless. In any case, awkward questions would have been asked if she had gone back to the Ministry with the news that she had met you on her holidays. Wizards who are supposed to be dead would do well not to run into Ministry of Magic witches at wayside inns. . . ."
"We could have modified her memory? But Memory Charms can be broken by a powerful wizard, as I proved when I questioned her. It would be an insult to her memory not to use the information I extracted from her, Wormtail."
"One more murder . . . my faithful servant at Hogwarts . . . Harry Potter is as good as mine, Wormtail. It is decided. There will be no more argument. But quiet . . . I think I hear Nagini. . . ."
"Nagini has interesting news, Wormtail,"
"In-indeed, my Lord?"
"Indeed, yes,” said the voice. “According to Nagini, there is an old Muggle standing right outside this room, listening to every word we say."
"Invite him inside, Wormtail. Where are your manners?"
"You heard everything, Muggle?"
"What’s that you’re calling me?"
"I am calling you a Muggle,” said the voice coolly. “It means that you are not a wizard."
"I don’t know what you mean by wizard,” said Frank, his voice growing steadier. “All I know is I’ve heard enough to interest the police tonight, I have. You’ve done murder and you’re planning more! And I’ll tell you this too,” he added, on a sudden inspiration, “my wife knows I’m up here, and if I don’t come back —"
"You have no wife,” said the cold voice, very quietly. “Nobody knows you are here. You told nobody that you were coming. Do not lie to Lord Voldemort, Muggle, for he knows . . . he always knows. . . ."
"Is that right?” said Frank roughly. “Lord, is it? Well, I don’t think much of your manners, my Lord. Turn ’round and face me like a man, why don’t you?"
"But I am not a man, Muggle,” said the cold voice, barely audible now over the crackling of the flames. “I am much, much more than a man. However . . . why not? I will face you. . . . Wormtail, come turn my chair around."
"You heard me, Wormtail."
"Your scar hurt? Harry, that’s really serious. . . . Write to Professor Dumbledore! And I’ll go and check Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions. . . . Maybe there’s something in there about curse scars. . . ."
"Your scar hurt? But . . . but You-Know-Who can’t be near you now, can he? I mean . . . you’d know, wouldn’t you? He’d be trying to do you in again, wouldn’t he? I dunno, Harry, maybe curse scars always twinge a bit. . . . I’ll ask Dad. . . ."
"There you are, Diddy darling,"
"he didn’t want some swotty little nancy boy for a son anyway.” They also skated over the accusations of bullying in the report — “He’s a boisterous little boy, but he wouldn’t hurt a fly!"
"rabbit food."
"Is this it?"
"You,” he barked at Harry. “In the living room. Now."
"So,” he said, marching over to the fireplace and turning to face Harry as though he were about to pronounce him under arrest. “So."
"So what?"
"This just arrived,” said Uncle Vernon. He brandished a piece of purple writing paper at Harry. “A letter. About you."
"Look at this,"
"She did put enough stamps on, then,"
"The postman noticed,” he said through gritted teeth. “Very interested to know where this letter came from, he was. That’s why he rang the doorbell. Seemed to think it was funny."
"So — can I go then?"
"Who is this woman?"
"You’ve seen her,” said Harry. “She’s my friend Ron’s mother, she was meeting him off the Hog — off the school train at the end of last term."
"Hogwarts Express,"
"Dumpy sort of woman?” he growled finally. “Load of children with red hair?"
"dumpy,"
"Quidditch,” he muttered under his breath. “Quidditch — what is this rubbish?"
"It’s a sport,” he said shortly. “Played on broom —"
"All right, all right!” said Uncle Vernon loudly. Harry saw, with some satisfaction, that his uncle looked vaguely panicky. Apparently his nerves couldn’t stand the sound of the word “broomsticks” in his living room. He took refuge in perusing the letter again. Harry saw his lips form the words “send us your answer . . . in the normal way."
"What does she mean, ‘the normal way’?"
"Normal for us,” said Harry, and before his uncle could stop him, he added, “you know, owl post. That’s what’s normal for wizards."
"How many times do I have to tell you not to mention that unnaturalness under my roof?” he hissed, his face now a rich plum color. “You stand there, in the clothes Petunia and I have put on your ungrateful back —"
"Only after Dudley finished with them,"
"I will not be spoken to like that!"
"Okay, I can’t see the World Cup. Can I go now, then? Only I’ve got a letter to Sirius I want to finish. You know — my godfather."
"You’re — you’re writing to him, are you?"
"Well — yeah,” said Harry, casually. “It’s been a while since he heard from me, and, you know, if he doesn’t, he might start thinking something’s wrong."
"Well, all right then. You can go to this ruddy . . . this stupid . . . this World Cup thing. You write and tell these — these Weasleys they’re to pick you up, mind. I haven’t got time to go dropping you off all over the country. And you can spend the rest of the summer there. And you can tell your — your godfather . . . tell him . . . tell him you’re going."
"Okay then,"
"That was an excellent breakfast, wasn’t it?” said Harry. “I feel really full, don’t you?"
"OUCH!"
"Pig,"
"Calm down!” Harry said as the small owl flew low over his head, twittering madly with what Harry could only assume was pride at having delivered the letter to the right person. “Come here, I need you to take my answer back!"
"Feeling up to a long journey?"
"Can you take this to Sirius for me?” he said, picking up his letter. “Hang on . . . I just want to finish it."
"I’ll be at Ron’s when you get back, all right?"
"I hope you told them to dress properly, these people,” he snarled at once. “I’ve seen the sort of stuff your lot wear. They’d better have the decency to put on normal clothes, that’s all."
"normal."
"They’ll be driving, of course?"
"Er,"
"I think so,"
"They’re late!"
"I know,” said Harry. “Maybe — er — the traffic’s bad, or something."
"No consideration at all."
"We might’ve had an engagement."
"Maybe they think they’ll get invited to dinner if they’re late."
"Well, they most certainly won’t be,” said Uncle Vernon, and Harry heard him stand up and start pacing the living room. “They’ll take the boy and go, there’ll be no hanging around. That’s if they’re coming at all. Probably mistaken the day. I daresay their kind don’t set much store by punctuality. Either that or they drive some tin-pot car that’s broken d — AAAAAAAARRRRRGH!"
"What happened?” said Harry. “What’s the matter?"
"What is it?” gasped Aunt Petunia, who had backed into the wall and was staring, terrified, toward the fire. “What is it, Vernon?"
"Ouch! Fred, no — go back, go back, there’s been some kind of mistake — tell George not to — OUCH! George, no, there’s no room, go back quickly and tell Ron —"
"Maybe Harry can hear us, Dad — maybe he’ll be able to let us out —"
"Harry? Harry, can you hear us?"
"What is this?” growled Uncle Vernon. “What’s going on?"
"They — they’ve tried to get here by Floo powder,” said Harry, fighting a mad desire to laugh. “They can travel by fire — only you’ve blocked the fireplace — hang on —"
"Mr. Weasley? Can you hear me?"
"Shh!"
"Mr. Weasley, it’s Harry . . . the fireplace has been blocked up. You won’t be able to get through there."
"Damn!” said Mr. Weasley’s voice. “What on earth did they want to block up the fireplace for?"
"They’ve got an electric fire,"
"Really?” said Mr. Weasley’s voice excitedly. “Eclectic, you say? With a plug? Gracious, I must see that. . . . Let’s think . . . ouch, Ron!"
"What are we doing here? Has something gone wrong?"
"Oh no, Ron,” came Fred’s voice, very sarcastically. “No, this is exactly where we wanted to end up."
"Yeah, we’re having the time of our lives here,"
"Boys, boys . . .” said Mr. Weasley vaguely. “I’m trying to think what to do. . . . Yes . . . only way . . . Stand back, Harry."
"Wait a moment!” he bellowed at the fire. “What exactly are you going to —"
"That’s better,” panted Mr. Weasley, brushing dust from his long green robes and straightening his glasses. “Ah — you must be Harry’s aunt and uncle!"
"Er — yes — sorry about that,” said Mr. Weasley, lowering his hand and looking over his shoulder at the blasted fireplace. “It’s all my fault. It just didn’t occur to me that we wouldn’t be able to get out at the other end. I had your fireplace connected to the Floo Network, you see — just for an afternoon, you know, so we could get Harry. Muggle fireplaces aren’t supposed to be connected, strictly speaking — but I’ve got a useful contact at the Floo Regulation Panel and he fixed it for me. I can put it right in a jiffy, though, don’t worry. I’ll light a fire to send the boys back, and then I can repair your fireplace before I Disapparate."
"Hello, Harry!” said Mr. Weasley brightly. “Got your trunk ready?"
"It’s upstairs,"
"We’ll get it,"
"Well,” said Mr. Weasley, swinging his arms slightly, while he tried to find words to break the very nasty silence. “Very — erm — very nice place you’ve got here."
"They run off eckeltricity, do they?” he said knowledgeably. “Ah yes, I can see the plugs. I collect plugs,” he added to Uncle Vernon. “And batteries. Got a very large collection of batteries. My wife thinks I’m mad, but there you are."
"Ah, this is your cousin, is it, Harry?"
"Yep,” said Harry, “that’s Dudley."
"Having a good holiday, Dudley?"
"Ah, right,” said Mr. Weasley. “Better get cracking then."
"Incendio!"
"Off you go then, Fred,"
"Coming,” said Fred. “Oh no — hang on —"
"the Burrow!"
"Right then, George,” said Mr. Weasley, “you and the trunk."
"the Burrow!"
"Ron, you next,"
"See you,” said Ron brightly to the Dursleys. He grinned broadly at Harry, then stepped into the fire, shouted “the Burrow!"
"Well . . .’bye then,"
"Harry said good-bye to you,” he said. “Didn’t you hear him?"
"It doesn’t matter,” Harry muttered to Mr. Weasley. “Honestly, I don’t care."
"You aren’t going to see your nephew till next summer,” he said to Uncle Vernon in mild indignation. “Surely you’re going to say good-bye?"
"Good-bye, then."
"See you,"
"Not to worry, I can sort him out!"
"No, really!” said Mr. Weasley desperately. “It’s a simple process — it was the toffee — my son Fred — real practical joker — but it’s only an Engorgement Charm — at least, I think it is — please, I can correct it —"
"Now really!” said Mr. Weasley angrily, brandishing his wand. “I’m trying to help!"
"Harry, go! Just go!” Mr. Weasley shouted, his wand on Uncle Vernon. “I’ll sort this out!"
"the Burrow!"
"Did he eat it?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, straightening up. “What was it?"
"Ton-Tongue Toffee,” said Fred brightly. “George and I invented them, and we’ve been looking for someone to test them on all summer. . . ."
"How’re you doing, Harry?"
"That wasn’t funny, Fred!” he shouted. “What on earth did you give that Muggle boy?"
"I didn’t give him anything,” said Fred, with another evil grin. “I just dropped it. . . . It was his fault he went and ate it, I never told him to."
"You dropped it on purpose!” roared Mr. Weasley. “You knew he’d eat it, you knew he was on a diet —"
"How big did his tongue get?"
"It was four feet long before his parents would let me shrink it!"
"It isn’t funny!” Mr. Weasley shouted. “That sort of behavior seriously undermines wizard–Muggle relations! I spend half my life campaigning against the mistreatment of Muggles, and my own sons —"
"We didn’t give it to him because he’s a Muggle!"
"No, we gave it to him because he’s a great bullying git,” said George. “Isn’t he, Harry?"
"Yeah, he is, Mr. Weasley,"
"That’s not the point!” raged Mr. Weasley. “You wait until I tell your mother —"
"Tell me what?"
"Oh hello, Harry, dear,” she said, spotting him and smiling. Then her eyes snapped back to her husband. “Tell me what, Arthur?"
"Tell me what, Arthur?"
"It’s nothing, Molly,” mumbled Mr. Weasley, “Fred and George just — but I’ve had words with them —"
"What have they done this time?” said Mrs. Weasley. “If it’s got anything to do with Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes —"
"Why don’t you show Harry where he’s sleeping, Ron?"
"He knows where he’s sleeping,” said Ron, “in my room, he slept there last —"
"We can all go,"
"Oh,” said Ron, cottoning on. “Right."
"Yeah, we’ll come too,"
"You stay where you are!"
"What are Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes?"
"Mum found this stack of order forms when she was cleaning Fred and George’s room,” said Ron quietly. “Great long price lists for stuff they’ve invented. Joke stuff, you know. Fake wands and trick sweets, loads of stuff. It was brilliant, I never knew they’d been inventing all that . . ."
"We’ve been hearing explosions out of their room for ages, but we never thought they were actually making things,” said Ginny. “We thought they just liked the noise."
"Only, most of the stuff — well, all of it, really — was a bit dangerous,” said Ron, “and, you know, they were planning to sell it at Hogwarts to make some money, and Mum went mad at them. Told them they weren’t allowed to make any more of it, and burned all the order forms. . . . She’s furious at them anyway. They didn’t get as many O.W.L.s as she expected."
"And then there was this big row,” Ginny said, “because Mum wants them to go into the Ministry of Magic like Dad, and they told her all they want to do is open a joke shop."
"Hi, Percy,"
"Oh hello, Harry,” said Percy. “I was wondering who was making all the noise. I’m trying to work in here, you know — I’ve got a report to finish for the office — and it’s rather difficult to concentrate when people keep thundering up and down the stairs."
"We’re not thundering,” said Ron irritably. “We’re walking. Sorry if we’ve disturbed the top-secret workings of the Ministry of Magic."
"What are you working on?"
"A report for the Department of International Magical Cooperation,” said Percy smugly. “We’re trying to standardize cauldron thickness. Some of these foreign imports are just a shade too thin — leakages have been increasing at a rate of almost three percent a year —"
"That’ll change the world, that report will,” said Ron. “Front page of the Daily Prophet, I expect, cauldron leaks."
"You might sneer, Ron,” he said heatedly, “but unless some sort of international law is imposed we might well find the market flooded with flimsy, shallow-bottomed products that seriously endanger —"
"Yeah, yeah, all right,"
"Shut up, Pig,” said Ron, edging his way between two of the four beds that had been squeezed into the room. “Fred and George are in here with us, because Bill and Charlie are in their room,” he told Harry. “Percy gets to keep his room all to himself because he’s got to work."
"Er — why are you calling that owl Pig?"
"Because he’s being stupid,” said Ginny. “Its proper name is Pigwidgeon."
"Yeah, and that’s not a stupid name at all,” said Ron sarcastically. “Ginny named him,” he explained to Harry. “She reckons it’s sweet. And I tried to change it, but it was too late, he won’t answer to anything else. So now he’s Pig. I’ve got to keep him up here because he annoys Errol and Hermes. He annoys me too, come to that."
"Where’s Crookshanks?"
"Out in the garden, I expect,” she said. “He likes chasing gnomes. He’s never seen any before."
"Percy’s enjoying work, then?"
"Enjoying it?” said Ron darkly. “I don’t reckon he’d come home if Dad didn’t make him. He’s obsessed. Just don’t get him onto the subject of his boss. According to Mr. Crouch . . . as I was saying to Mr. Crouch . . . Mr. Crouch is of the opinion . . . Mr. Crouch was telling me . . . They’ll be announcing their engagement any day now."
"Have you had a good summer, Harry?” said Hermione. “Did you get our food parcels and everything?"
"Yeah, thanks a lot,” said Harry. “They saved my life, those cakes."
"And have you heard from — ?"
"I think they’ve stopped arguing,” said Hermione, to cover the awkward moment, because Ginny was looking curiously from Ron to Harry. “Shall we go down and help your mum with dinner?"
"Yeah, all right,"
"We’re eating out in the garden,” she said when they came in. “There’s just not room for eleven people in here. Could you take the plates outside, girls? Bill and Charlie are setting up the tables. Knives and forks, please, you two,"
"Oh for heaven’s sake,” she snapped, now directing her wand at a dustpan, which hopped off the sideboard and started skating across the floor, scooping up the potatoes. “Those two!” she burst out savagely, now pulling pots and pans out of a cupboard, and Harry knew she meant Fred and George. “I don’t know what’s going to happen to them, I really don’t. No ambition, unless you count making as much trouble as they possibly can. . . ."
"It’s not as though they haven’t got brains,” she continued irritably, taking the saucepan over to the stove and lighting it with a further poke of her wand, “but they’re wasting them, and unless they pull themselves together soon, they’ll be in real trouble. I’ve had more owls from Hogwarts about them than the rest put together. If they carry on the way they’re going, they’ll end up in front of the Improper Use of Magic Office."
"I don’t know where we went wrong with them,” said Mrs. Weasley, putting down her wand and starting to pull out still more saucepans. “It’s been the same for years, one thing after another, and they won’t listen to — OH NOT AGAIN!"
"One of their fake wands again!” she shouted. “How many times have I told them not to leave them lying around?"
"C’mon,” Ron said hurriedly to Harry, seizing a handful of cutlery from the open drawer, “let’s go and help Bill and Charlie."
"Will you keep it down?!"
"Sorry, Perce,” said Bill, grinning. “How’re the cauldron bottoms coming on?"
"Very badly,"
"I’ve told Mr. Crouch that I’ll have it ready by Tuesday,” Percy was saying pompously. “That’s a bit sooner than he expected it, but I like to keep on top of things. I think he’ll be grateful I’ve done it in good time, I mean, it’s extremely busy in our department just now, what with all the arrangements for the World Cup. We’re just not getting the support we need from the Department of Magical Games and Sports. Ludo Bagman —"
"I like Ludo,” said Mr. Weasley mildly. “He was the one who got us such good tickets for the Cup. I did him a bit of a favor: His brother, Otto, got into a spot of trouble — a lawnmower with unnatural powers — I smoothed the whole thing over."
"Oh Bagman’s likable enough, of course,” said Percy dismissively, “but how he ever got to be Head of Department . . . when I compare him to Mr. Crouch! I can’t see Mr. Crouch losing a member of our department and not trying to find out what’s happened to them. You realize Bertha Jorkins has been missing for over a month now? Went on holiday to Albania and never came back?"
"Yes, I was asking Ludo about that,” said Mr. Weasley, frowning. “He says Bertha’s gotten lost plenty of times before now — though I must say, if it was someone in my department, I’d be worried. . . ."
"Oh Bertha’s hopeless, all right,” said Percy. “I hear she’s been shunted from department to department for years, much more trouble than she’s worth . . . but all the same, Bagman ought to be trying to find her. Mr. Crouch has been taking a personal interest, she worked in our department at one time, you know, and I think Mr. Crouch was quite fond of her — but Bagman just keeps laughing and saying she probably misread the map and ended up in Australia instead of Albania. However” — Percy heaved an impressive sigh and took a deep swig of elderflower wine — “we’ve got quite enough on our plates at the Department of International Magical Cooperation without trying to find members of other departments too. As you know, we’ve got another big event to organize right after the World Cup."
"You know the one I’m talking about, Father.” He raised his voice slightly. “The top-secret one."
"He’s been trying to get us to ask what that event is ever since he started work. Probably an exhibition of thick-bottomed cauldrons."
". . . with a horrible great fang on it. Really, Bill, what do they say at the bank?"
"Mum, no one at the bank gives a damn how I dress as long as I bring home plenty of treasure,"
"And your hair’s getting silly, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley, fingering her wand lovingly. “I wish you’d let me give it a trim. . . ."
"I like it,” said Ginny, who was sitting beside Bill. “You’re so old-fashioned, Mum. Anyway, it’s nowhere near as long as Professor Dumbledore’s. . . ."
"It’s got to be Ireland,” said Charlie thickly, through a mouthful of potato. “They flattened Peru in the semifinals."
"Bulgaria has got Viktor Krum, though,"
"Krum’s one decent player, Ireland has got seven,” said Charlie shortly. “I wish England had got through. That was embarrassing, that was."
"What happened?"
"Went down to Transylvania, three hundred and ninety to ten,” said Charlie gloomily. “Shocking performance. And Wales lost to Uganda, and Scotland was slaughtered by Luxembourg."
"So — have you heard from Sirius lately?"
"Yeah,” said Harry softly, “twice. He sounds okay. I wrote to him yesterday. He might write back while I’m here."
"Look at the time,” Mrs. Weasley said suddenly, checking her wristwatch. “You really should be in bed, the whole lot of you — you’ll be up at the crack of dawn to get to the Cup. Harry, if you leave your school list out, I’ll get your things for you tomorrow in Diagon Alley. I’m getting everyone else’s. There might not be time after the World Cup, the match went on for five days last time."
"Wow — hope it does this time!"
"Well, I certainly don’t,” said Percy sanctimoniously. “I shudder to think what the state of my in-tray would be if I was away from work for five days."
"Yeah, someone might slip dragon dung in it again, eh, Perce?"
"That was a sample of fertilizer from Norway!” said Percy, going very red in the face. “It was nothing personal!"
"It was,” Fred whispered to Harry as they got up from the table. “We sent it."
"Time to go, Harry, dear,"
"’S’ time already?"
"What d’you think?” he asked anxiously. “We’re supposed to go incognito — do I look like a Muggle, Harry?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, smiling, “very good."
"Where’re Bill and Charlie and Per-Per-Percy?"
"Well, they’re Apparating, aren’t they?” said Mrs. Weasley, heaving the large pot over to the table and starting to ladle porridge into bowls. “So they can have a bit of a lie-in."
"So they’re still in bed?” said Fred grumpily, pulling his bowl of porridge toward him. “Why can’t we Apparate too?"
"Because you’re not of age and you haven’t passed your test,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “And where have those girls got to?"
"You have to pass a test to Apparate?"
"Oh yes,” said Mr. Weasley, tucking the tickets safely into the back pocket of his jeans. “The Department of Magical Transportation had to fine a couple of people the other day for Apparating without a license. It’s not easy, Apparition, and when it’s not done properly it can lead to nasty complications. This pair I’m talking about went and Splinched themselves."
"Er — Splinched?"
"They left half of themselves behind,” said Mr. Weasley, now spooning large amounts of treacle onto his porridge. “So, of course, they were stuck. Couldn’t move either way. Had to wait for the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad to sort them out. Meant a fair old bit of paperwork, I can tell you, what with the Muggles who spotted the body parts they’d left behind. . . ."
"Were they okay?"
"Oh yes,” said Mr. Weasley matter-of-factly. “But they got a heavy fine, and I don’t think they’ll be trying it again in a hurry. You don’t mess around with Apparition. There are plenty of adult wizards who don’t bother with it. Prefer brooms — slower, but safer."
"But Bill and Charlie and Percy can all do it?"
"Charlie had to take the test twice,” said Fred, grinning. “He failed the first time, Apparated five miles south of where he meant to, right on top of some poor old dear doing her shopping, remember?"
"Yes, well, he passed the second time,"
"Percy only passed two weeks ago,” said George. “He’s been Apparating downstairs every morning since, just to prove he can."
"Why do we have to be up so early?"
"We’ve got a bit of a walk,"
"Walk?” said Harry. “What, are we walking to the World Cup?"
"No, no, that’s miles away,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling. “We only need to walk a short way. It’s just that it’s very difficult for a large number of wizards to congregate without attracting Muggle attention. We have to be very careful about how we travel at the best of times, and on a huge occasion like the Quidditch World Cup —"
"George!"
"What?"
"What is that in your pocket?"
"Nothing!"
"Don’t you lie to me!"
"Accio!"
"We told you to destroy them!” said Mrs. Weasley furiously, holding up what were unmistakably more Ton-Tongue Toffees. “We told you to get rid of the lot! Empty your pockets, go on, both of you!"
"Accio! Accio! Accio!"
"We spent six months developing those!"
"Oh a fine way to spend six months!” she shrieked. “No wonder you didn’t get more O.W.L.s!"
"Well, have a lovely time,” said Mrs. Weasley, “and behave yourselves,” she called after the twins’ retreating backs, but they did not look back or answer. “I’ll send Bill, Charlie, and Percy along around midday,"
"So how does everyone get there without all the Muggles noticing?"
"It’s been a massive organizational problem,” sighed Mr. Weasley. “The trouble is, about a hundred thousand wizards turn up at the World Cup, and of course, we just haven’t got a magical site big enough to accommodate them all. There are places Muggles can’t penetrate, but imagine trying to pack a hundred thousand wizards into Diagon Alley or platform nine and three-quarters. So we had to find a nice deserted moor, and set up as many anti-Muggle precautions as possible. The whole Ministry’s been working on it for months. First, of course, we have to stagger the arrivals. People with cheaper tickets have to arrive two weeks beforehand. A limited number use Muggle transport, but we can’t have too many clogging up their buses and trains — remember, wizards are coming from all over the world. Some Apparate, of course, but we have to set up safe points for them to appear, well away from Muggles. I believe there’s a handy wood they’re using as the Apparition point. For those who don’t want to Apparate, or can’t, we use Portkeys. They’re objects that are used to transport wizards from one spot to another at a prearranged time. You can do large groups at a time if you need to. There have been two hundred Portkeys placed at strategic points around Britain, and the nearest one to us is up at the top of Stoatshead Hill, so that’s where we’re headed."
"What sort of objects are Portkeys?"
"Well, they can be anything,” said Mr. Weasley. “Unobtrusive things, obviously, so Muggles don’t go picking them up and playing with them . . . stuff they’ll just think is litter. . . ."
"Whew,” panted Mr. Weasley, taking off his glasses and wiping them on his sweater. “Well, we’ve made good time — we’ve got ten minutes. . . ."
"Now we just need the Portkey,” said Mr. Weasley, replacing his glasses and squinting around at the ground. “It won’t be big. . . . Come on . . ."
"Over here, Arthur! Over here, son, we’ve got it!"
"Amos!"
"This is Amos Diggory, everyone,” said Mr. Weasley. “He works for the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. And I think you know his son, Cedric?"
"Hi,"
"Long walk, Arthur?"
"Not too bad,” said Mr. Weasley. “We live just on the other side of the village there. You?"
"Had to get up at two, didn’t we, Ced? I tell you, I’ll be glad when he’s got his Apparition test. Still . . . not complaining . . . Quidditch World Cup, wouldn’t miss it for a sackful of Galleons — and the tickets cost about that. Mind you, looks like I got off easy. . . .” Amos Diggory peered good-naturedly around at the three Weasley boys, Harry, Hermione, and Ginny. “All these yours, Arthur?"
"Oh no, only the redheads,” said Mr. Weasley, pointing out his children. “This is Hermione, friend of Ron’s — and Harry, another friend —"
"Merlin’s beard,” said Amos Diggory, his eyes widening. “Harry? Harry Potter?"
"Er — yeah,"
"Ced’s talked about you, of course,” said Amos Diggory. “Told us all about playing against you last year. . . . I said to him, I said — Ced, that’ll be something to tell your grandchildren, that will. . . . You beat Harry Potter!"
"Harry fell off his broom, Dad,” he muttered. “I told you . . . it was an accident. . . ."
"Yes, but you didn’t fall off, did you?” roared Amos genially, slapping his son on his back. “Always modest, our Ced, always the gentleman . . . but the best man won, I’m sure Harry’d say the same, wouldn’t you, eh? One falls off his broom, one stays on, you don’t need to be a genius to tell which one’s the better flier!"
"Must be nearly time,” said Mr. Weasley quickly, pulling out his watch again. “Do you know whether we’re waiting for any more, Amos?"
"No, the Lovegoods have been there for a week already and the Fawcetts couldn’t get tickets,” said Mr. Diggory. “There aren’t any more of us in this area, are there?"
"Not that I know of,” said Mr. Weasley. “Yes, it’s a minute off. . . . We’d better get ready. . . ."
"You just need to touch the Portkey, that’s all, a finger will do —"
"Three . . .” muttered Mr. Weasley, one eye still on his watch, “two . . . one . . ."
"Seven past five from Stoatshead Hill,"
"Morning, Basil,"
"Hello there, Arthur,” said Basil wearily. “Not on duty, eh? It’s all right for some. . . . We’ve been here all night. . . . You’d better get out of the way, we’ve got a big party coming in from the Black Forest at five-fifteen. Hang on, I’ll find your campsite. . . . Weasley . . . Weasley . . .” He consulted his parchment list. “About a quarter of a mile’s walk over there, first field you come to. Site manager’s called Mr. Roberts. Diggory . . . second field . . . ask for Mr. Payne."
"Thanks, Basil,"
"Morning!"
"Morning,"
"Would you be Mr. Roberts?"
"Aye, I would,” said Mr. Roberts. “And who’re you?"
"Weasley — two tents, booked a couple of days ago?"
"Aye,” said Mr. Roberts, consulting a list tacked to the door. “You’ve got a space up by the wood there. Just the one night?"
"That’s it,"
"You’ll be paying now, then?"
"Ah — right — certainly —” said Mr. Weasley. He retreated a short distance from the cottage and beckoned Harry toward him. “Help me, Harry,” he muttered, pulling a roll of Muggle money from his pocket and starting to peel the notes apart. “This one’s a — a — a ten? Ah yes, I see the little number on it now. . . . So this is a five?"
"A twenty,"
"Ah yes, so it is. . . . I don’t know, these little bits of paper . . ."
"You foreign?"
"Foreign?"
"You’re not the first one who’s had trouble with money,” said Mr. Roberts, scrutinizing Mr. Weasley closely. “I had two try and pay me with great gold coins the size of hubcaps ten minutes ago."
"Did you really?"
"Never been this crowded,” he said suddenly, looking out over the misty field again. “Hundreds of pre-bookings. People usually just turn up. . . ."
"Is that right?"
"Aye,” he said thoughtfully. “People from all over. Loads of foreigners. And not just foreigners. Weirdos, you know? There’s a bloke walking ’round in a kilt and a poncho."
"Shouldn’t he?"
"It’s like some sort of . . . I dunno . . . like some sort of rally,” said Mr. Roberts. “They all seem to know each other. Like a big party."
"Obliviate!"
"A map of the campsite for you,” Mr. Roberts said placidly to Mr. Weasley. “And your change."
"Thanks very much,"
"Been having a lot of trouble with him. Needs a Memory Charm ten times a day to keep him happy. And Ludo Bagman’s not helping. Trotting around talking about Bludgers and Quaffles at the top of his voice, not a worry about anti-Muggle security. Blimey, I’ll be glad when this is over. See you later, Arthur."
"I thought Mr. Bagman was Head of Magical Games and Sports,” said Ginny, looking surprised. “He should know better than to talk about Bludgers near Muggles, shouldn’t he?"
"He should,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling, and leading them through the gates into the campsite, “but Ludo’s always been a bit . . . well . . . lax about security. You couldn’t wish for a more enthusiastic Head of the sports department though. He played Quidditch for England himself, you know. And he was the best Beater the Wimbourne Wasps ever had."
"Always the same,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling. “We can’t resist showing off when we get together. Ah, here we are, look, this is us."
"Couldn’t have a better spot!” said Mr. Weasley happily. “The field is just on the other side of the wood there, we’re as close as we could be.” He hoisted his backpack from his shoulders. “Right,” he said excitedly, “no magic allowed, strictly speaking, not when we’re out in these numbers on Muggle land. We’ll be putting these tents up by hand! Shouldn’t be too difficult. . . . Muggles do it all the time. . . . Here, Harry, where do you reckon we should start?"
"We’ll be a bit cramped,” he called, “but I think we’ll all squeeze in. Come and have a look."
"Well, it’s not for long,” said Mr. Weasley, mopping his bald patch with a handkerchief and peering in at the four bunk beds that stood in the bedroom. “I borrowed this from Perkins at the office. Doesn’t camp much anymore, poor fellow, he’s got lumbago."
"We’ll need water. . . ."
"There’s a tap marked on this map the Muggle gave us,” said Ron, who had followed Harry inside the tent and seemed completely unimpressed by its extraordinary inner proportions. “It’s on the other side of the field."
"Well, why don’t you, Harry, and Hermione go and get us some water then” — Mr. Weasley handed over the kettle and a couple of saucepans — “and the rest of us will get some wood for a fire?"
"But we’ve got an oven,” said Ron. “Why can’t we just —"
"Ron, anti-Muggle security!” said Mr. Weasley, his face shining with anticipation. “When real Muggles camp, they cook on fires outdoors. I’ve seen them at it!"
"How many times, Kevin? You don’t — touch — Daddy’s — wand — yecchh!"
"You bust slug! You bust slug!"
"In broad daylight! Parents having a lie-in, I suppose —"
"Er — is it my eyes, or has everything gone green?"
"Harry! Ron! Hermione!"
"Like the decorations?” said Seamus, grinning. “The Ministry’s not too happy."
"Ah, why shouldn’t we show our colors?” said Mrs. Finnigan. “You should see what the Bulgarians have got dangling all over their tents. You’ll be supporting Ireland, of course?” she added, eyeing Harry, Ron, and Hermione beadily. When they had assured her that they were indeed supporting Ireland, they set off again, though, as Ron said, “Like we’d say anything else surrounded by that lot."
"I wonder what the Bulgarians have got dangling all over their tents?"
"Let’s go and have a look,"
"Krum,"
"What?"
"Krum!” said Ron. “Viktor Krum, the Bulgarian Seeker!"
"He looks really grumpy,"
"‘Really grumpy’?” Ron raised his eyes to the heavens. “Who cares what he looks like? He’s unbelievable. He’s really young too. Only just eighteen or something. He’s a genius, you wait until tonight, you’ll see."
"Just put them on, Archie, there’s a good chap. You can’t walk around like that, the Muggle at the gate’s already getting suspicious —"
"I bought this in a Muggle shop,” said the old wizard stubbornly. “Muggles wear them."
"Muggle women wear them, Archie, not the men, they wear these,"
"I’m not putting them on,” said old Archie in indignation. “I like a healthy breeze ’round my privates, thanks."
"Who d’you reckon they are?” he said. “They don’t go to Hogwarts, do they?"
"’Spect they go to some foreign school,” said Ron. “I know there are others. Never met anyone who went to one, though. Bill had a penfriend at a school in Brazil . . . this was years and years ago . . . and he wanted to go on an exchange trip but Mum and Dad couldn’t afford it. His penfriend got all offended when he said he wasn’t going and sent him a cursed hat. It made his ears shrivel up."
"You’ve been ages,"
"Met a few people,” said Ron, setting the water down. “You not got that fire started yet?"
"Dad’s having fun with the matches,"
"Oops!"
"Come here, Mr. Weasley,"
"That was Cuthbert Mockridge, Head of the Goblin Liaison Office. . . . Here comes Gilbert Wimple; he’s with the Committee on Experimental Charms; he’s had those horns for a while now. . . . Hello, Arnie . . . Arnold Peasegood, he’s an Obliviator — member of the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad, you know. . . . and that’s Bode and Croaker . . . they’re Unspeakables. . . ."
"They’re what?"
"From the Department of Mysteries, top secret, no idea what they get up to. . . ."
"Just Apparated, Dad,” said Percy loudly. “Ah, excellent, lunch!"
"Aha!” he said. “The man of the moment! Ludo!"
"Ahoy there!"
"Arthur, old man,” he puffed as he reached the campfire, “what a day, eh? What a day! Could we have asked for more perfect weather? A cloudless night coming . . . and hardly a hiccough in the arrangements. . . . Not much for me to do!"
"Ah — yes,” said Mr. Weasley, grinning, “this is my son Percy. He’s just started at the Ministry — and this is Fred — no, George, sorry — that’s Fred — Bill, Charlie, Ron — my daughter, Ginny — and Ron’s friends, Hermione Granger and Harry Potter."
"Everyone,” Mr. Weasley continued, “this is Ludo Bagman, you know who he is, it’s thanks to him we’ve got such good tickets —"
"Fancy a flutter on the match, Arthur?” he said eagerly, jingling what seemed to be a large amount of gold in the pockets of his yellow-and-black robes. “I’ve already got Roddy Pontner betting me Bulgaria will score first — I offered him nice odds, considering Ireland’s front three are the strongest I’ve seen in years — and little Agatha Timms has put up half shares in her eel farm on a week-long match."
"Oh . . . go on then,” said Mr. Weasley. “Let’s see . . . a Galleon on Ireland to win?"
"A Galleon?” Ludo Bagman looked slightly disappointed, but recovered himself. “Very well, very well . . . any other takers?"
"They’re a bit young to be gambling,” said Mr. Weasley. “Molly wouldn’t like —"
"We’ll bet thirty-seven Galleons, fifteen Sickles, three Knuts,” said Fred as he and George quickly pooled all their money, “that Ireland wins — but Viktor Krum gets the Snitch. Oh and we’ll throw in a fake wand."
"You don’t want to go showing Mr. Bagman rubbish like that —"
"Excellent! I haven’t seen one that convincing in years! I’d pay five Galleons for that!"
"Boys,” said Mr. Weasley under his breath, “I don’t want you betting. . . . That’s all your savings. . . . Your mother —"
"Don’t be a spoilsport, Arthur!” boomed Ludo Bagman, rattling his pockets excitedly. “They’re old enough to know what they want! You reckon Ireland will win but Krum’ll get the Snitch? Not a chance, boys, not a chance. . . . I’ll give you excellent odds on that one. . . . We’ll add five Galleons for the funny wand, then, shall we. . . ."
"Cheers,"
"Couldn’t do me a brew, I suppose? I’m keeping an eye out for Barty Crouch. My Bulgarian opposite number’s making difficulties, and I can’t understand a word he’s saying. Barty’ll be able to sort it out. He speaks about a hundred and fifty languages."
"Mr. Crouch?” said Percy, suddenly abandoning his look of poker-stiff disapproval and positively writhing with excitement. “He speaks over two hundred! Mermish and Gobbledegook and Troll . . ."
"Anyone can speak Troll,” said Fred dismissively. “All you have to do is point and grunt."
"Any news of Bertha Jorkins yet, Ludo?"
"Not a dicky bird,” said Bagman comfortably. “But she’ll turn up. Poor old Bertha . . . memory like a leaky cauldron and no sense of direction. Lost, you take my word for it. She’ll wander back into the office sometime in October, thinking it’s still July."
"You don’t think it might be time to send someone to look for her?"
"Barty Crouch keeps saying that,” said Bagman, his round eyes widening innocently, “but we really can’t spare anyone at the moment. Oh — talk of the devil! Barty!"
"Pull up a bit of grass, Barty,"
"No thank you, Ludo,” said Crouch, and there was a bite of impatience in his voice. “I’ve been looking for you everywhere. The Bulgarians are insisting we add another twelve seats to the Top Box."
"Oh is that what they’re after?” said Bagman. “I thought the chap was asking to borrow a pair of tweezers. Bit of a strong accent."
"Mr. Crouch!” said Percy breathlessly, sunk into a kind of half-bow that made him look like a hunchback. “Would you like a cup of tea?"
"Oh,” said Mr. Crouch, looking over at Percy in mild surprise. “Yes — thank you, Weatherby."
"Oh and I’ve been wanting a word with you too, Arthur,” said Mr. Crouch, his sharp eyes falling upon Mr. Weasley. “Ali Bashir’s on the warpath. He wants a word with you about your embargo on flying carpets."
"I sent him an owl about that just last week. If I’ve told him once I’ve told him a hundred times: Carpets are defined as a Muggle Artifact by the Registry of Proscribed Charmable Objects, but will he listen?"
"I doubt it,” said Mr. Crouch, accepting a cup from Percy. “He’s desperate to export here."
"Well, they’ll never replace brooms in Britain, will they?"
"Ali thinks there’s a niche in the market for a family vehicle,” said Mr. Crouch. “I remember my grandfather had an Axminster that could seat twelve — but that was before carpets were banned, of course."
"So, been keeping busy, Barty?"
"Fairly,” said Mr. Crouch dryly. “Organizing Portkeys across five continents is no mean feat, Ludo."
"I expect you’ll both be glad when this is over?"
"Glad! Don’t know when I’ve had more fun. . . . Still, it’s not as though we haven’t got anything to look forward to, eh, Barty? Eh? Plenty left to organize, eh?"
"We agreed not to make the announcement until all the details —"
"Oh details!” said Bagman, waving the word away like a cloud of midges. “They’ve signed, haven’t they? They’ve agreed, haven’t they? I bet you anything these kids’ll know soon enough anyway. I mean, it’s happening at Hogwarts —"
"Ludo, we need to meet the Bulgarians, you know,” said Mr. Crouch sharply, cutting Bagman’s remarks short. “Thank you for the tea, Weatherby."
"See you all later!” he said. “You’ll be up in the Top Box with me — I’m commentating!"
"What’s happening at Hogwarts, Dad?” said Fred at once. “What were they talking about?"
"You’ll find out soon enough,"
"It’s classified information, until such time as the Ministry decides to release it,” said Percy stiffly. “Mr. Crouch was quite right not to disclose it."
"Oh shut up, Weatherby,"
"Been saving my pocket money all summer for this,"
"Wow, look at these!"
"Omnioculars,” said the saleswizard eagerly. “You can replay action . . . slow everything down . . . and they flash up a play-by-play breakdown if you need it. Bargain — ten Galleons each."
"Wish I hadn’t bought this now,"
"Three pairs,"
"No — don’t bother,"
"You won’t be getting anything for Christmas,” Harry told him, thrusting Omnioculars into his and Hermione’s hands. “For about ten years, mind."
"Fair enough,"
"Oooh, thanks, Harry,” said Hermione. “And I’ll get us some programs, look —"
"It’s time!” said Mr. Weasley, looking as excited as any of them. “Come on, let’s go!"
"Seats a hundred thousand,” said Mr. Weasley, spotting the awestruck look on Harry’s face. “Ministry task force of five hundred have been working on it all year. Muggle Repelling Charms on every inch of it. Every time Muggles have got anywhere near here all year, they’ve suddenly remembered urgent appointments and had to dash away again . . . bless them,"
"Prime seats!” said the Ministry witch at the entrance when she checked their tickets. “Top Box! Straight upstairs, Arthur, and as high as you can go."
"Dobby?"
"Did sir just call me Dobby?"
"Sorry,” Harry told the elf, “I just thought you were someone I knew."
"But I knows Dobby too, sir!” squeaked the elf. She was shielding her face, as though blinded by light, though the Top Box was not brightly lit. “My name is Winky, sir — and you, sir —” Her dark brown eyes widened to the size of side plates as they rested upon Harry’s scar. “You is surely Harry Potter!"
"Yeah, I am,"
"But Dobby talks of you all the time, sir!"
"How is he?” said Harry. “How’s freedom suiting him?"
"Ah, sir,” said Winky, shaking her head, “ah sir, meaning no disrespect, sir, but I is not sure you did Dobby a favor, sir, when you is setting him free."
"Why?” said Harry, taken aback. “What’s wrong with him?"
"Freedom is going to Dobby’s head, sir,” said Winky sadly. “Ideas above his station, sir. Can’t get another position, sir."
"Why not?"
"He is wanting paying for his work, sir."
"Paying?” said Harry blankly. “Well — why shouldn’t he be paid?"
"House-elves is not paid, sir!” she said in a muffled squeak. “No, no, no. I says to Dobby, I says, go find yourself a nice family and settle down, Dobby. He is getting up to all sorts of high jinks, sir, what is unbecoming to a house-elf. You goes racketing around like this, Dobby, I says, and next thing I hear you’s up in front of the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, like some common goblin."
"Well, it’s about time he had a bit of fun,"
"House-elves is not supposed to have fun, Harry Potter,” said Winky firmly, from behind her hands. “House-elves does what they is told. I is not liking heights at all, Harry Potter” — she glanced toward the edge of the box and gulped — “but my master sends me to the Top Box and I comes, sir."
"Why’s he sent you up here, if he knows you don’t like heights?"
"Master — master wants me to save him a seat, Harry Potter. He is very busy,” said Winky, tilting her head toward the empty space beside her. “Winky is wishing she is back in master’s tent, Harry Potter, but Winky does what she is told. Winky is a good house-elf."
"So that’s a house-elf?” Ron muttered. “Weird things, aren’t they?"
"Dobby was weirder,"
"Wild!” he said, twiddling the replay knob on the side. “I can make that old bloke down there pick his nose again . . . and again . . . and again . . ."
"‘A display from the team mascots will precede the match,’"
"Oh that’s always worth watching,” said Mr. Weasley. “National teams bring creatures from their native land, you know, to put on a bit of a show."
"Harry Potter, you know,” he told the Bulgarian minister loudly, who was wearing splendid robes of black velvet trimmed with gold and didn’t seem to understand a word of English. “Harry Potter . . . oh come on now, you know who he is . . . the boy who survived You-Know-Who . . . you do know who he is —"
"Knew we’d get there in the end,” said Fudge wearily to Harry. “I’m no great shakes at languages; I need Barty Crouch for this sort of thing. Ah, I see his house-elf’s saving him a seat. . . . Good job too, these Bulgarian blighters have been trying to cadge all the best places . . . ah, and here’s Lucius!"
"Ah, Fudge,” said Mr. Malfoy, holding out his hand as he reached the Minister of Magic. “How are you? I don’t think you’ve met my wife, Narcissa? Or our son, Draco?"
"How do you do, how do you do?” said Fudge, smiling and bowing to Mrs. Malfoy. “And allow me to introduce you to Mr. Oblansk — Obalonsk — Mr. — well, he’s the Bulgarian Minister of Magic, and he can’t understand a word I’m saying anyway, so never mind. And let’s see who else — you know Arthur Weasley, I daresay?"
"Good lord, Arthur,” he said softly. “What did you have to sell to get seats in the Top Box? Surely your house wouldn’t have fetched this much?"
"Lucius has just given a very generous contribution to St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, Arthur. He’s here as my guest."
"How — how nice,"
"Slimy gits,"
"Everyone ready?” he said, his round face gleaming like a great, excited Edam. “Minister — ready to go?"
"Ready when you are, Ludo,"
"Sonorus!"
"Ladies and gentlemen . . . welcome! Welcome to the final of the four hundred and twenty-second Quidditch World Cup!"
"And now, without further ado, allow me to introduce . . . the Bulgarian National Team Mascots!"
"I wonder what they’ve brought,” said Mr. Weasley, leaning forward in his seat. “Aaah!” He suddenly whipped off his glasses and polished them hurriedly on his robes. “Veela!"
"What are veel — ?"
"Harry, what are you doing?"
"You’ll be wanting that,” he said, “once Ireland have had their say."
"Huh?"
"Honestly!"
"And now,” roared Ludo Bagman’s voice, “kindly put your wands in the air . . . for the Irish National Team Mascots!"
"Excellent!"
"Leprechauns!"
"There you go,” Ron yelled happily, stuffing a fistful of gold coins into Harry’s hand, “for the Omnioculars! Now you’ve got to buy me a Christmas present, ha!"
"And now, ladies and gentlemen, kindly welcome — the Bulgarian National Quidditch Team! I give you — Dimitrov!"
"Ivanova!"
"Zograf! Levski! Vulchanov! Volkov! Aaaaaaand — Krum!"
"That’s him, that’s him!"
"And now, please greet — the Irish National Quidditch Team!” yelled Bagman. “Presenting — Connolly! Ryan! Troy! Mullet! Moran! Quigley! Aaaaaand — Lynch!"
"Firebolt"
"And here, all the way from Egypt, our referee, acclaimed Chairwizard of the International Association of Quidditch, Hassan Mostafa!"
"Theeeeeeeey’re OFF!” screamed Bagman. “And it’s Mullet! Troy! Moran! Dimitrov! Back to Mullet! Troy! Levski! Moran!"
"TROY SCORES!” roared Bagman, and the stadium shuddered with a roar of applause and cheers. “Ten zero to Ireland!"
"What?” Harry yelled, looking wildly around through his Omnioculars. “But Levski’s got the Quaffle!"
"Harry, if you’re not going to watch at normal speed, you’re going to miss things!"
"Troy — Mullet — Moran!"
"Fingers in your ears!"
"Dimitrov! Levski! Dimitrov! Ivanova — oh I say!"
"They’re going to crash!"
"Fool!” moaned Mr. Weasley. “Krum was feinting!"
"It’s time-out!” yelled Bagman’s voice, “as trained mediwizards hurry onto the field to examine Aidan Lynch!"
"He’ll be okay, he only got ploughed!” Charlie said reassuringly to Ginny, who was hanging over the side of the box, looking horror-struck. “Which is what Krum was after, of course. . . ."
"And Mostafa takes the Bulgarian Keeper to task for cobbing — excessive use of elbows!” Bagman informed the roaring spectators. “And — yes, it’s a penalty to Ireland!"
"HA, HA, HA!"
"Look at the referee!"
"Now, we can’t have that!” said Ludo Bagman, though he sounded highly amused. “Somebody slap the referee!"
"And unless I’m much mistaken, Mostafa is actually attempting to send off the Bulgarian team mascots!” said Bagman’s voice. “Now there’s something we haven’t seen before. . . . Oh, this could turn nasty. . . ."
"HEE, HEE, HEE."
"Two penalties for Ireland!” shouted Bagman, and the Bulgarian crowd howled with anger. “And Volkov and Vulchanov had better get back on those brooms . . . yes . . . there they go . . . and Troy takes the Quaffle . . ."
"Foul!"
"Foul!” echoed Ludo Bagman’s magically magnified voice. “Dimitrov skins Moran — deliberately flying to collide there — and it’s got to be another penalty — yes, there’s the whistle!"
"And that, boys,” yelled Mr. Weasley over the tumult of the crowd below, “is why you should never go for looks alone!"
"Levski — Dimitrov — Moran — Troy — Mullet — Ivanova — Moran again — Moran — MORAN SCORES!"
"Time-out! Ah, come on, he can’t play like that, look at him —"
"Look at Lynch!"
"He’s seen the Snitch!” Harry shouted. “He’s seen it! Look at him go!"
"They’re going to crash!"
"They’re not!"
"Lynch is!"
"The Snitch, where’s the Snitch?"
"He’s got it — Krum’s got it — it’s all over!"
"IRELAND WINS!” Bagman shouted, who like the Irish, seemed to be taken aback by the sudden end of the match. “KRUM GETS THE SNITCH — BUT IRELAND WINS — good lord, I don’t think any of us were expecting that!"
"What did he catch the Snitch for?” Ron bellowed, even as he jumped up and down, applauding with his hands over his head. “He ended it when Ireland were a hundred and sixty points ahead, the idiot!"
"He knew they were never going to catch up!” Harry shouted back over all the noise, also applauding loudly. “The Irish Chasers were too good. . . . He wanted to end it on his terms, that’s all. . . ."
"He was very brave, wasn’t he?” Hermione said, leaning forward to watch Krum land as a swarm of mediwizards blasted a path through the battling leprechauns and veela to get to him. “He looks a terrible mess. . . ."
"Vell, ve fought bravely,"
"You can speak English!” said Fudge, sounding outraged. “And you’ve been letting me mime everything all day!"
"Vell, it vos very funny,"
"And as the Irish team performs a lap of honor, flanked by their mascots, the Quidditch World Cup itself is brought into the Top Box!"
"Let’s have a really loud hand for the gallant losers — Bulgaria!"
"Quietus."
"They’ll be talking about this one for years,” he said hoarsely, “a really unexpected twist, that. . . . shame it couldn’t have lasted longer. . . . Ah yes. . . . yes, I owe you . . . how much?"
"Don’t worry, Dad,” said Fred gleefully, “we’ve got big plans for this money. We don’t want it confiscated."
"Oh I am glad I’m not on duty,” muttered Mr. Weasley sleepily. “I wouldn’t fancy having to go and tell the Irish they’ve got to stop celebrating."
"I give you . . . Potter!"
"Get up! Ron — Harry — come on now, get up, this is urgent!"
"’S’ matter?"
"No time, Harry — just grab a jacket and get outside — quickly!"
"That’s sick,” Ron muttered, watching the smallest Muggle child, who had begun to spin like a top, sixty feet above the ground, his head flopping limply from side to side. “That is really sick. . . ."
"We’re going to help the Ministry!” Mr. Weasley shouted over all the noise, rolling up his own sleeves. “You lot — get into the woods, and stick together. I’ll come and fetch you when we’ve sorted this out!"
"C’mon,"
"What happened?” said Hermione anxiously, stopping so abruptly that Harry walked into her. “Ron, where are you? Oh this is stupid — Lumos!"
"Tripped over a tree root,"
"Well, with feet that size, hard not to,"
"Language, Weasley,” said Malfoy, his pale eyes glittering. “Hadn’t you better be hurrying along, now? You wouldn’t like her spotted, would you?"
"What’s that supposed to mean?"
"Granger, they’re after Muggles,” said Malfoy. “D’you want to be showing off your knickers in midair? Because if you do, hang around . . . they’re moving this way, and it would give us all a laugh."
"Hermione’s a witch,"
"Have it your own way, Potter,” said Malfoy, grinning maliciously. “If you think they can’t spot a Mudblood, stay where you are."
"You watch your mouth!” shouted Ron. Everybody present knew that “Mudblood"
"Never mind, Ron,"
"Scare easily, don’t they?” he said lazily. “I suppose your daddy told you all to hide? What’s he up to — trying to rescue the Muggles?"
"Where’re your parents?” said Harry, his temper rising. “Out there wearing masks, are they?"
"Well . . . if they were, I wouldn’t be likely to tell you, would I, Potter?"
"Oh come on,” said Hermione, with a disgusted look at Malfoy, “let’s go and find the others."
"Keep that big bushy head down, Granger,"
"Come on,"
"I’ll bet you anything his dad is one of that masked lot!"
"Well, with any luck, the Ministry will catch him!” said Hermione fervently. “Oh I can’t believe this. Where have the others got to?"
"Où est Madame Maxime? Nous l’avons perdue —"
"Er — what?"
"Oh . . .” The girl who had spoken turned her back on him, and as they walked on they distinctly heard her say, “’Ogwarts."
"Beauxbatons,"
"Sorry?"
"They must go to Beauxbatons,” said Hermione. “You know . . . Beauxbatons Academy of Magic . . . I read about it in An Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe."
"Oh . . . yeah . . . right,"
"Fred and George can’t have gone that far,"
"Ah, no, I don’t believe it . . . I’ve lost my wand!"
"You’re kidding!"
"Maybe it’s back in the tent,"
"Maybe it fell out of your pocket when we were running?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, “maybe . . ."
"There is bad wizards about!” she squeaked distractedly as she leaned forward and labored to keep running. “People high — high in the air! Winky is getting out of the way!"
"What’s up with her?” said Ron, looking curiously after Winky. “Why can’t she run properly?"
"Bet she didn’t ask permission to hide,"
"You know, house-elves get a very raw deal!” said Hermione indignantly. “It’s slavery, that’s what it is! That Mr. Crouch made her go up to the top of the stadium, and she was terrified, and he’s got her bewitched so she can’t even run when they start trampling tents! Why doesn’t anyone do something about it?"
"Well, the elves are happy, aren’t they?” Ron said. “You heard old Winky back at the match . . . ‘House-elves is not supposed to have fun’ . . . that’s what she likes, being bossed around. . . ."
"It’s people like you, Ron,” Hermione began hotly, “who prop up rotten and unjust systems, just because they’re too lazy to —"
"Let’s just keep moving, shall we?"
"I pull down about a hundred sacks of Galleons a year!” one of them shouted. “I’m a dragon killer for the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures."
"No, you’re not!” yelled his friend. “You’re a dishwasher at the Leaky Cauldron. . . . but I’m a vampire hunter, I’ve killed about ninety so far —"
"I’m about to become the youngest-ever Minister of Magic, I am."
"Did I tell you I’ve invented a broomstick that’ll reach Jupiter?"
"Honestly!"
"I reckon we can just wait here, you know. We’ll hear anyone coming a mile off."
"Who’s that?” he said, blinking down at them, trying to make out their faces. “What are you doing in here, all alone?"
"Well — there’s a sort of riot going on,"
"What?"
"At the campsite . . . some people have got hold of a family of Muggles. . . ."
"Damn them!"
"Not exactly on top of things, Mr. Bagman, is he?"
"He was a great Beater, though,” said Ron, leading the way off the path into a small clearing, and sitting down on a patch of dry grass at the foot of a tree. “The Wimbourne Wasps won the league three times in a row while he was with them."
"I hope the others are okay,"
"They’ll be fine,"
"Imagine if your dad catches Lucius Malfoy,” said Harry, sitting down next to Ron and watching the small figure of Krum slouching over the fallen leaves. “He’s always said he’d like to get something on him."
"That’d wipe the smirk off old Draco’s face, all right,"
"Those poor Muggles, though,” said Hermione nervously. “What if they can’t get them down?"
"They will,” said Ron reassuringly. “They’ll find a way."
"Mad, though, to do something like that when the whole Ministry of Magic’s out here tonight!” said Hermione. “I mean, how do they expect to get away with it? Do you think they’ve been drinking, or are they just —"
"Hello?"
"Who’s there?"
"MORSMORDRE!"
"What the — ?"
"Who’s there?"
"Harry, come on, move!"
"What’s the matter?"
"It’s the Dark Mark, Harry!” Hermione moaned, pulling him as hard as she could. “You-Know-Who’s sign!"
"Voldemort’s — ?"
"Harry, come on!"
"DUCK!"
"STUPEFY!"
"Stop!” yelled a voice he recognized. “STOP! That’s my son!"
"Ron — Harry” — his voice sounded shaky — “Hermione — are you all right?"
"Out of the way, Arthur,"
"Which of you did it?” he snapped, his sharp eyes darting between them. “Which of you conjured the Dark Mark?"
"We didn’t do that!"
"We didn’t do anything!” said Ron, who was rubbing his elbow and looking indignantly at his father. “What did you want to attack us for?"
"Do not lie, sir!” shouted Mr. Crouch. His wand was still pointing directly at Ron, and his eyes were popping — he looked slightly mad. “You have been discovered at the scene of the crime!"
"Barty,” whispered a witch in a long woolen dressing gown, “they’re kids, Barty, they’d never have been able to —"
"Where did the Mark come from, you three?"
"Over there,” said Hermione shakily, pointing at the place where they had heard the voice. “There was someone behind the trees . . . they shouted words — an incantation —"
"Oh, stood over there, did they?” said Mr. Crouch, turning his popping eyes on Hermione now, disbelief etched all over his face. “Said an incantation, did they? You seem very well informed about how that Mark is summoned, missy —"
"We’re too late,” said the witch in the woolen dressing gown, shaking her head. “They’ll have Disapparated."
"I don’t think so,” said a wizard with a scrubby brown beard. It was Amos Diggory, Cedric’s father. “Our Stunners went right through those trees. . . . There’s a good chance we got them. . . ."
"Amos, be careful!"
"Yes! We got them! There’s someone here! Unconscious! It’s — but — blimey . . ."
"You’ve got someone?” shouted Mr. Crouch, sounding highly disbelieving. “Who? Who is it?"
"This — cannot — be,” he said jerkily. “No —"
"No point, Mr. Crouch,” Mr. Diggory called after him. “There’s no one else there."
"Bit embarrassing,” Mr. Diggory said grimly, looking down at Winky’s unconscious form. “Barty Crouch’s house-elf . . . I mean to say . . ."
"Come off it, Amos,” said Mr. Weasley quietly, “you don’t seriously think it was the elf? The Dark Mark’s a wizard’s sign. It requires a wand."
"Yeah,” said Mr. Diggory, “and she had a wand."
"What?"
"Here, look.” Mr. Diggory held up a wand and showed it to Mr. Weasley. “Had it in her hand. So that’s clause three of the Code of Wand Use broken, for a start. No non-human creature is permitted to carry or use a wand."
"The Dark Mark!” he panted, almost trampling Winky as he turned inquiringly to his colleagues. “Who did it? Did you get them? Barty! What’s going on?"
"Where have you been, Barty?” said Bagman. “Why weren’t you at the match? Your elf was saving you a seat too — gulping gargoyles!” Bagman had just noticed Winky lying at his feet. “What happened to her?"
"I have been busy, Ludo,” said Mr. Crouch, still talking in the same jerky fashion, barely moving his lips. “And my elf has been Stunned."
"Stunned? By you lot, you mean? But why — ?"
"No!” he said. “Winky? Conjure the Dark Mark? She wouldn’t know how! She’d need a wand, for a start!"
"And she had one,” said Mr. Diggory. “I found her holding one, Ludo. If it’s all right with you, Mr. Crouch, I think we should hear what she’s got to say for herself."
"Rennervate!"
"Elf!” said Mr. Diggory sternly. “Do you know who I am? I’m a member of the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures!"
"As you see, elf, the Dark Mark was conjured here a short while ago,” said Mr. Diggory. “And you were discovered moments later, right beneath it! An explanation, if you please!"
"I — I — I is not doing it, sir!” Winky gasped. “I is not knowing how, sir!"
"You were found with a wand in your hand!"
"Hey — that’s mine!"
"Excuse me?"
"That’s my wand!” said Harry. “I dropped it!"
"You dropped it?” repeated Mr. Diggory in disbelief. “Is this a confession? You threw it aside after you conjured the Mark?"
"Amos, think who you’re talking to!” said Mr. Weasley, very angrily. “Is Harry Potter likely to conjure the Dark Mark?"
"Er — of course not,” mumbled Mr. Diggory. “Sorry . . . carried away . . ."
"I didn’t drop it there, anyway,” said Harry, jerking his thumb toward the trees beneath the skull. “I missed it right after we got into the wood."
"So,” said Mr. Diggory, his eyes hardening as he turned to look at Winky again, cowering at his feet. “You found this wand, eh, elf? And you picked it up and thought you’d have some fun with it, did you?"
"I is not doing magic with it, sir!” squealed Winky, tears streaming down the sides of her squashed and bulbous nose. “I is . . . I is . . . I is just picking it up, sir! I is not making the Dark Mark, sir, I is not knowing how!"
"It wasn’t her!” said Hermione. She looked very nervous, speaking up in front of all these Ministry wizards, yet determined all the same. “Winky’s got a squeaky little voice, and the voice we heard doing the incantation was much deeper!” She looked around at Harry and Ron, appealing for their support. “It didn’t sound anything like Winky, did it?"
"No,” said Harry, shaking his head. “It definitely didn’t sound like an elf."
"Yeah, it was a human voice,"
"Well, we’ll soon see,” growled Mr. Diggory, looking unimpressed. “There’s a simple way of discovering the last spell a wand performed, elf, did you know that?"
"Prior Incantato!"
"Deletrius!"
"So,"
"I is not doing it!” she squealed, her eyes rolling in terror. “I is not, I is not, I is not knowing how! I is a good elf, I isn’t using wands, I isn’t knowing how!"
"You’ve been caught red-handed, elf!” Mr. Diggory roared. “Caught with the guilty wand in your hand!"
"Amos,” said Mr. Weasley loudly, “think about it . . . precious few wizards know how to do that spell. . . . Where would she have learned it?"
"Perhaps Amos is suggesting,” said Mr. Crouch, cold anger in every syllable, “that I routinely teach my servants to conjure the Dark Mark?"
"Mr. Crouch . . . not . . . not at all . . ."
"You have now come very close to accusing the two people in this clearing who are least likely to conjure that Mark!” barked Mr. Crouch. “Harry Potter — and myself! I suppose you are familiar with the boy’s story, Amos?"
"Of course — everyone knows —"
"And I trust you remember the many proofs I have given, over a long career, that I despise and detest the Dark Arts and those who practice them?"
"Mr. Crouch, I — I never suggested you had anything to do with it!"
"If you accuse my elf, you accuse me, Diggory!” shouted Mr. Crouch. “Where else would she have learned to conjure it?"
"She — she might’ve picked it up anywhere —"
"Precisely, Amos,” said Mr. Weasley. “She might have picked it up anywhere. . . . Winky?” he said kindly, turning to the elf, but she flinched as though he too was shouting at her. “Where exactly did you find Harry’s wand?"
"I — I is finding it . . . finding it there, sir. . . .” she whispered, “there . . . in the trees, sir. . . ."
"You see, Amos?” said Mr. Weasley. “Whoever conjured the Mark could have Disapparated right after they’d done it, leaving Harry’s wand behind. A clever thing to do, not using their own wand, which could have betrayed them. And Winky here had the misfortune to come across the wand moments later and pick it up."
"But then, she’d have been only a few feet away from the real culprit!” said Mr. Diggory impatiently. “Elf? Did you see anyone?"
"I is seeing no one, sir . . . no one . . ."
"Amos,” said Mr. Crouch curtly, “I am fully aware that, in the ordinary course of events, you would want to take Winky into your department for questioning. I ask you, however, to allow me to deal with her."
"You may rest assured that she will be punished,"
"M-m-master . . .” Winky stammered, looking up at Mr. Crouch, her eyes brimming with tears. “M-m-master, p-p-please . . ."
"Winky has behaved tonight in a manner I would not have believed possible,” he said slowly. “I told her to remain in the tent. I told her to stay there while I went to sort out the trouble. And I find that she disobeyed me. This means clothes."
"No!” shrieked Winky, prostrating herself at Mr. Crouch’s feet. “No, master! Not clothes, not clothes!"
"But she was frightened!” Hermione burst out angrily, glaring at Mr. Crouch. “Your elf’s scared of heights, and those wizards in masks were levitating people! You can’t blame her for wanting to get out of their way!"
"I have no use for a house-elf who disobeys me,” he said coldly, looking over at Hermione. “I have no use for a servant who forgets what is due to her master, and to her master’s reputation."
"Well, I think I’ll take my lot back to the tent, if nobody’s got any objections. Amos, that wand’s told us all it can — if Harry could have it back, please —"
"Come on, you three,” Mr. Weasley said quietly. But Hermione didn’t seem to want to move; her eyes were still upon the sobbing elf. “Hermione!"
"What’s going to happen to Winky?"
"I don’t know,"
"The way they were treating her!” said Hermione furiously. “Mr. Diggory, calling her ‘elf’ all the time . . . and Mr. Crouch! He knows she didn’t do it and he’s still going to sack her! He didn’t care how frightened she’d been, or how upset she was — it was like she wasn’t even human!"
"Well, she’s not,"
"That doesn’t mean she hasn’t got feelings, Ron. It’s disgusting the way —"
"Hermione, I agree with you,” said Mr. Weasley quickly, beckoning her on, “but now is not the time to discuss elf rights. I want to get back to the tent as fast as we can. What happened to the others?"
"We lost them in the dark,” said Ron. “Dad, why was everyone so uptight about that skull thing?"
"I’ll explain everything back at the tent,"
"What’s going on in there?"
"Who conjured it?"
"Arthur — it’s not — Him?"
"Of course it’s not Him,” said Mr. Weasley impatiently. “We don’t know who it was; it looks like they Disapparated. Now excuse me, please, I want to get to bed."
"Dad, what’s going on?” he called through the dark. “Fred, George, and Ginny got back okay, but the others —"
"I’ve got them here,"
"Did you get them, Dad?” said Bill sharply. “The person who conjured the Mark?"
"No,” said Mr. Weasley. “We found Barty Crouch’s elf holding Harry’s wand, but we’re none the wiser about who actually conjured the Mark."
"What?"
"Harry’s wand?"
"Mr. Crouch’s elf?"
"Well, Mr. Crouch is quite right to get rid of an elf like that!” he said. “Running away when he’d expressly told her not to . . . embarrassing him in front of the whole Ministry . . . how would that have looked, if she’d been brought up in front of the Department for the Regulation and Control —"
"She didn’t do anything — she was just in the wrong place at the wrong time!"
"Hermione, a wizard in Mr. Crouch’s position can’t afford a house-elf who’s going to run amok with a wand!"
"She didn’t run amok!” shouted Hermione. “She just picked it up off the ground!"
"Look, can someone just explain what that skull thing was?” said Ron impatiently. “It wasn’t hurting anyone. . . . Why’s it such a big deal?"
"I told you, it’s You-Know-Who’s symbol, Ron,” said Hermione, before anyone else could answer. “I read about it in The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts."
"And it hasn’t been seen for thirteen years,” said Mr. Weasley quietly. “Of course people panicked . . . it was almost like seeing You-Know-Who back again."
"I don’t get it,” said Ron, frowning. “I mean . . . it’s still only a shape in the sky. . . ."
"Ron, You-Know-Who and his followers sent the Dark Mark into the air whenever they killed,” said Mr. Weasley. “The terror it inspired . . . you have no idea, you’re too young. Just picture coming home and finding the Dark Mark hovering over your house, and knowing what you’re about to find inside. . . .” Mr. Weasley winced. “Everyone’s worst fear . . . the very worst . . ."
"Well, it didn’t help us tonight, whoever conjured it. It scared the Death Eaters away the moment they saw it. They all Disapparated before we’d got near enough to unmask any of them. We caught the Robertses before they hit the ground, though. They’re having their memories modified right now."
"Death Eaters?” said Harry. “What are Death Eaters?"
"It’s what You-Know-Who’s supporters called themselves,” said Bill. “I think we saw what’s left of them tonight — the ones who managed to keep themselves out of Azkaban, anyway."
"We can’t prove it was them, Bill,” said Mr. Weasley. “Though it probably was,"
"Yeah, I bet it was!” said Ron suddenly. “Dad, we met Draco Malfoy in the woods, and he as good as told us his dad was one of those nutters in masks! And we all know the Malfoys were right in with You-Know-Who!"
"But what were Voldemort’s supporters —” Harry began. Everybody flinched — like most of the Wizarding world, the Weasleys always avoided saying Voldemort’s name. “Sorry,” said Harry quickly. “What were You-Know-Who’s supporters up to, levitating Muggles? I mean, what was the point?"
"The point?” said Mr. Weasley with a hollow laugh. “Harry, that’s their idea of fun. Half the Muggle killings back when You-Know-Who was in power were done for fun. I suppose they had a few drinks tonight and couldn’t resist reminding us all that lots of them are still at large. A nice little reunion for them,"
"But if they were the Death Eaters, why did they Disapparate when they saw the Dark Mark?” said Ron. “They’d have been pleased to see it, wouldn’t they?"
"Use your brains, Ron,” said Bill. “If they really were Death Eaters, they worked very hard to keep out of Azkaban when You-Know-Who lost power, and told all sorts of lies about him forcing them to kill and torture people. I bet they’d be even more frightened than the rest of us to see him come back. They denied they’d ever been involved with him when he lost his powers, and went back to their daily lives. . . . I don’t reckon he’d be over-pleased with them, do you?"
"So . . . whoever conjured the Dark Mark . . .” said Hermione slowly, “were they doing it to show support for the Death Eaters, or to scare them away?"
"Your guess is as good as ours, Hermione,” said Mr. Weasley. “But I’ll tell you this . . . it was only the Death Eaters who ever knew how to conjure it. I’d be very surprised if the person who did it hadn’t been a Death Eater once, even if they’re not now. . . . Listen, it’s very late, and if your mother hears what’s happened she’ll be worried sick. We’ll get a few more hours sleep and then try and get an early Portkey out of here."
"Merry Christmas."
"He’ll be all right,” said Mr. Weasley quietly as they marched off onto the moor. “Sometimes, when a person’s memory’s modified, it makes him a bit disorientated for a while . . . and that was a big thing they had to make him forget."
"Oh thank goodness, thank goodness!"
"Arthur — I’ve been so worried — so worried —"
"You’re all right,” Mrs. Weasley muttered distractedly, releasing Mr. Weasley and staring around at them all with red eyes, “you’re alive. . . . Oh boys . . ."
"Ouch! Mum — you’re strangling us —"
"I shouted at you before you left!” Mrs. Weasley said, starting to sob. “It’s all I’ve been thinking about! What if You-Know-Who had got you, and the last thing I ever said to you was that you didn’t get enough O.W.L.s? Oh Fred . . . George . . ."
"Come on, now, Molly, we’re all perfectly okay,” said Mr. Weasley soothingly, prising her off the twins and leading her back toward the house. “Bill,” he added in an undertone, “pick up that paper, I want to see what it says. . . ."
"I knew it,” said Mr. Weasley heavily. “Ministry blunders . . . culprits not apprehended . . . lax security . . . Dark wizards running unchecked . . . national disgrace . . . Who wrote this? Ah . . . of course . . . Rita Skeeter."
"That woman’s got it in for the Ministry of Magic!” said Percy furiously. “Last week she was saying we’re wasting our time quibbling about cauldron thickness, when we should be stamping out vampires! As if it wasn’t specifically stated in paragraph twelve of the Guidelines for the Treatment of Non-Wizard Part-Humans —"
"Do us a favor, Perce,” said Bill, yawning, “and shut up."
"I’m mentioned,"
"Where?” spluttered Mrs. Weasley, choking on her tea and whisky. “If I’d seen that, I’d have known you were alive!"
"Not by name,” said Mr. Weasley. “Listen to this: ‘If the terrified wizards and witches who waited breathlessly for news at the edge of the wood expected reassurance from the Ministry of Magic, they were sadly disappointed. A Ministry official emerged some time after the appearance of the Dark Mark alleging that nobody had been hurt, but refusing to give any more information. Whether this statement will be enough to quash the rumors that several bodies were removed from the woods an hour later, remains to be seen.’ Oh really,” said Mr. Weasley in exasperation, handing the paper to Percy. “Nobody was hurt. What was I supposed to say? Rumors that several bodies were removed from the woods . . . well, there certainly will be rumors now she’s printed that."
"Molly, I’m going to have to go into the office; this is going to take some smoothing over."
"I’ll come with you, Father,” said Percy importantly. “Mr. Crouch will need all hands on deck. And I can give him my cauldron report in person."
"Arthur, you’re supposed to be on holiday! This hasn’t got anything to do with your office; surely they can handle this without you?"
"I’ve got to go, Molly,” said Mr. Weasley. “I’ve made things worse. I’ll just change into my robes and I’ll be off. . . ."
"Mrs. Weasley,” said Harry suddenly, unable to contain himself, “Hedwig hasn’t arrived with a letter for me, has she?"
"Hedwig, dear?” said Mrs. Weasley distractedly. “No . . . no, there hasn’t been any post at all."
"All right if I go and dump my stuff in your room, Ron?"
"Yeah . . . think I will too,” said Ron at once. “Hermione?"
"Yes,"
"What’s up, Harry?"
"There’s something I haven’t told you,” Harry said. “On Saturday morning, I woke up with my scar hurting again."
"But — he wasn’t there, was he? You-Know-Who? I mean — last time your scar kept hurting, he was at Hogwarts, wasn’t he?"
"I’m sure he wasn’t on Privet Drive,” said Harry. “But I was dreaming about him . . . him and Peter — you know, Wormtail. I can’t remember all of it now, but they were plotting to kill . . . someone."
"me,"
"It was only a dream,” said Ron bracingly. “Just a nightmare."
"Yeah, but was it, though?” said Harry, turning to look out of the window at the brightening sky. “It’s weird, isn’t it? . . . My scar hurts, and three days later the Death Eaters are on the march, and Voldemort’s sign’s up in the sky again."
"Don’t — say — his — name!"
"And remember what Professor Trelawney said?” Harry went on, ignoring Ron. “At the end of last year?"
"Oh Harry, you aren’t going to pay attention to anything that old fraud says?"
"You weren’t there,” said Harry. “You didn’t hear her. This time was different. I told you, she went into a trance — a real one. And she said the Dark Lord would rise again . . . greater and more terrible than ever before . . . and he’d manage it because his servant was going to go back to him . . . and that night Wormtail escaped."
"Why were you asking if Hedwig had come, Harry?” Hermione asked. “Are you expecting a letter?"
"I told Sirius about my scar,” said Harry, shrugging. “I’m waiting for his answer."
"Good thinking!” said Ron, his expression clearing. “I bet Sirius’ll know what to do!"
"I hoped he’d get back to me quickly,"
"But we don’t know where Sirius is . . . he could be in Africa or somewhere, couldn’t he?” said Hermione reasonably. “Hedwig’s not going to manage that journey in a few days."
"Yeah, I know,"
"Come and have a game of Quidditch in the orchard, Harry,” said Ron. “Come on — three on three, Bill and Charlie and Fred and George will play. . . . You can try out the Wronski Feint. . . ."
"Ron,” said Hermione, in an I-don’t-think-you’re-being-very-sensitive sort of voice, “Harry doesn’t want to play Quidditch right now. . . . He’s worried, and he’s tired. . . . We all need to go to bed. . . ."
"Yeah, I want to play Quidditch,” said Harry suddenly. “Hang on, I’ll get my Firebolt."
"Boys."
"It’s been an absolute uproar,” Percy told them importantly the Sunday evening before they were due to return to Hogwarts. “I’ve been putting out fires all week. People keep sending Howlers, and of course, if you don’t open a Howler straight away, it explodes. Scorch marks all over my desk and my best quill reduced to cinders."
"Why are they all sending Howlers?"
"Complaining about security at the World Cup,” said Percy. “They want compensation for their ruined property. Mundungus Fletcher’s put in a claim for a twelve-bedroomed tent with en-suite Jacuzzi, but I’ve got his number. I know for a fact he was sleeping under a cloak propped on sticks."
"Home,” “school,” and “work” were there, but there was also “traveling,” “lost,” “hospital,” “prison,” and, in the position where the number twelve would be on a normal clock, “mortal peril."
"home” position, but Mr. Weasley’s, which was the longest, was still pointing to “work."
"Your father hasn’t had to go into the office on weekends since the days of You-Know-Who,” she said. “They’re working him far too hard. His dinner’s going to be ruined if he doesn’t come home soon."
"Well, Father feels he’s got to make up for his mistake at the match, doesn’t he?” said Percy. “If truth be told, he was a tad unwise to make a public statement without clearing it with his Head of Department first —"
"Don’t you dare blame your father for what that wretched Skeeter woman wrote!"
"If Dad hadn’t said anything, old Rita would just have said it was disgraceful that nobody from the Ministry had commented,” said Bill, who was playing chess with Ron. “Rita Skeeter never makes anyone look good. Remember, she interviewed all the Gringotts Charm Breakers once, and called me ‘a long-haired pillock’?"
"Well, it is a bit long, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley gently. “If you’d just let me —"
"No, Mum."
"What are you two up to?"
"Homework,"
"Don’t be ridiculous, you’re still on holiday,"
"Yeah, we’ve left it a bit late,"
"You’re not by any chance writing out a new order form, are you?” said Mrs. Weasley shrewdly. “You wouldn’t be thinking of re-starting Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes, by any chance?"
"Now, Mum,” said Fred, looking up at her, a pained look on his face. “If the Hogwarts Express crashed tomorrow, and George and I died, how would you feel to know that the last thing we ever heard from you was an unfounded accusation?"
"Oh your father’s coming!"
"work” to “traveling”; a second later it had shuddered to a halt on “home"
"Coming, Arthur!"
"Well, the fat’s really in the fire now,” he told Mrs. Weasley as he sat down in an armchair near the hearth and toyed unenthusiastically with his somewhat shriveled cauliflower. “Rita Skeeter’s been ferreting around all week, looking for more Ministry mess-ups to report. And now she’s found out about poor old Bertha going missing, so that’ll be the headline in the Prophet tomorrow. I told Bagman he should have sent someone to look for her ages ago."
"Mr. Crouch has been saying it for weeks and weeks,"
"Crouch is very lucky Rita hasn’t found out about Winky,” said Mr. Weasley irritably. “There’d be a week’s worth of headlines in his house-elf being caught holding the wand that conjured the Dark Mark."
"I thought we were all agreed that that elf, while irresponsible, did not conjure the Mark?"
"If you ask me, Mr. Crouch is very lucky no one at the Daily Prophet knows how mean he is to elves!"
"Now look here, Hermione!” said Percy. “A high-ranking Ministry official like Mr. Crouch deserves unswerving obedience from his servants —"
"His slave, you mean!” said Hermione, her voice rising passionately, “because he didn’t pay Winky, did he?"
"I think you’d all better go upstairs and check that you’ve packed properly!” said Mrs. Weasley, breaking up the argument. “Come on now, all of you. . . ."
"Bung him some Owl Treats,” said Ron, throwing a packet across to Harry. “It might shut him up."
"It’s been over a week,” Harry said, looking at Hedwig’s deserted perch. “Ron, you don’t reckon Sirius has been caught, do you?"
"Nah, it would’ve been in the Daily Prophet,” said Ron. “The Ministry would want to show they’d caught someone, wouldn’t they?"
"Yeah, I suppose. . . ."
"Look, here’s the stuff Mum got for you in Diagon Alley. And she’s got some gold out of your vault for you . . . and she’s washed all your socks."
"What is that supposed to be?"
"Here you are,” she said, sorting them into two piles. “Now, mind you pack them properly so they don’t crease."
"Mum, you’ve given me Ginny’s new dress,"
"Of course I haven’t,” said Mrs. Weasley. “That’s for you. Dress robes."
"What?"
"Dress robes!” repeated Mrs. Weasley. “It says on your school list that you’re supposed to have dress robes this year . . . robes for formal occasions."
"You’ve got to be kidding,” said Ron in disbelief. “I’m not wearing that, no way."
"Everyone wears them, Ron!” said Mrs. Weasley crossly. “They’re all like that! Your father’s got some for smart parties!"
"I’ll go starkers before I put that on,"
"Don’t be so silly,” said Mrs. Weasley. “You’ve got to have dress robes, they’re on your list! I got some for Harry too . . . show him, Harry. . . ."
"I thought they’d bring out the color of your eyes, dear,"
"Well, they’re okay!” said Ron angrily, looking at Harry’s robes. “Why couldn’t I have some like that?"
"Because . . . well, I had to get yours secondhand, and there wasn’t a lot of choice!"
"I’m never wearing them,” Ron was saying stubbornly. “Never."
"Fine,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “Go naked. And, Harry, make sure you get a picture of him. Goodness knows I could do with a laugh."
"Why is everything I own rubbish?"
"Arthur!” she called up the staircase. “Arthur! Urgent message from the Ministry!"
"I’ve got a quill here somewhere!"
". . . Muggle neighbors heard bangs and shouting, so they went and called those what-d’you-call-’ems — please-men. Arthur, you’ve got to get over there —"
"Here!"
"— it’s a real stroke of luck I heard about it,” said Mr. Diggory’s head. “I had to come into the office early to send a couple of owls, and I found the Improper Use of Magic lot all setting off — if Rita Skeeter gets hold of this one, Arthur —"
"What does Mad-Eye say happened?"
"Says he heard an intruder in his yard. Says he was creeping toward the house, but was ambushed by his dustbins."
"What did the dustbins do?"
"Made one hell of a noise and fired rubbish everywhere, as far as I can tell,” said Mr. Diggory. “Apparently one of them was still rocketing around when the please-men turned up —"
"And what about the intruder?"
"Arthur, you know Mad-Eye,” said Mr. Diggory’s head, rolling its eyes again. “Someone creeping into his yard in the dead of night? More likely there’s a very shell-shocked cat wandering around somewhere, covered in potato peelings. But if the Improper Use of Magic lot get their hands on Mad-Eye, he’s had it — think of his record — we’ve got to get him off on a minor charge, something in your department — what are exploding dustbins worth?"
"Might be a caution,” said Mr. Weasley, still writing very fast, his brow furrowed. “Mad-Eye didn’t use his wand? He didn’t actually attack anyone?"
"I’ll bet he leapt out of bed and started jinxing everything he could reach through the window,” said Mr. Diggory, “but they’ll have a job proving it, there aren’t any casualties."
"All right, I’m off,"
"Sorry about this, Molly,” it said, more calmly, “bothering you so early and everything . . . but Arthur’s the only one who can get Mad-Eye off, and Mad-Eye’s supposed to be starting his new job today. Why he had to choose last night . . ."
"Never mind, Amos,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Sure you won’t have a bit of toast or anything before you go?"
"Oh go on, then,"
"Fanks,"
"I’d better hurry — you have a good term, boys,” said Mr. Weasley to Harry, Ron, and the twins, fastening a cloak over his shoulders and preparing to Disapparate. “Molly, are you going to be all right taking the kids to King’s Cross?"
"Of course I will,” she said. “You just look after Mad-Eye, we’ll be fine."
"Did someone say Mad-Eye?” Bill asked. “What’s he been up to now?"
"He says someone tried to break into his house last night,"
"Mad-Eye Moody?” said George thoughtfully, spreading marmalade on his toast. “Isn’t he that nutter —"
"Your father thinks very highly of Mad-Eye Moody,"
"Yeah, well, Dad collects plugs, doesn’t he?” said Fred quietly as Mrs. Weasley left the room. “Birds of a feather . . ."
"Moody was a great wizard in his time,"
"He’s an old friend of Dumbledore’s, isn’t he?"
"Dumbledore’s not what you’d call normal, though, is he?” said Fred. “I mean, I know he’s a genius and everything . . ."
"Who is Mad-Eye?"
"He’s retired, used to work at the Ministry,” said Charlie. “I met him once when Dad took me in to work with him. He was an Auror — one of the best . . . a Dark wizard catcher,” he added, seeing Harry’s blank look. “Half the cells in Azkaban are full because of him. He made himself loads of enemies, though . . . the families of people he caught, mainly . . . and I heard he’s been getting really paranoid in his old age. Doesn’t trust anyone anymore. Sees Dark wizards everywhere."
"I just can’t justify taking more time off at the moment,” he told them. “Mr. Crouch is really starting to rely on me."
"Yeah, you know what, Percy?” said George seriously. “I reckon he’ll know your name soon."
"Arthur tried to borrow Ministry cars for us,” Mrs. Weasley whispered to Harry as they stood in the rain-washed yard, watching the taxi drivers heaving six heavy Hogwarts trunks into their cars. “But there weren’t any to spare. . . . Oh dear, they don’t look happy, do they?"
"I might be seeing you all sooner than you think,"
"Why?"
"You’ll see,” said Charlie. “Just don’t tell Percy I mentioned it . . . it’s ‘classified information, until such time as the Ministry sees fit to release it,’ after all."
"Yeah, I sort of wish I were back at Hogwarts this year,"
"Why?"
"You’re going to have an interesting year,” said Bill, his eyes twinkling. “I might even get time off to come and watch a bit of it. . . ."
"A bit of what?"
"Thanks for having us to stay, Mrs. Weasley,"
"Yeah, thanks for everything, Mrs. Weasley,"
"Oh it was my pleasure, dears,” said Mrs. Weasley. “I’d invite you for Christmas, but . . . well, I expect you’re all going to want to stay at Hogwarts, what with . . . one thing and another."
"Mum!” said Ron irritably. “What d’you three know that we don’t?"
"You’ll find out this evening, I expect,” said Mrs. Weasley, smiling. “It’s going to be very exciting — mind you, I’m very glad they’ve changed the rules —"
"What rules?"
"I’m sure Professor Dumbledore will tell you. . . . Now, behave, won’t you? Won’t you, Fred? And you, George?"
"Tell us what’s happening at Hogwarts!” Fred bellowed out of the window as Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and Charlie sped away from them. “What rules are they changing?"
"Bagman wanted to tell us what’s happening at Hogwarts,” he said grumpily, sitting down next to Harry. “At the World Cup, remember? But my own mother won’t say. Wonder what —"
"Shh!"
". . . Father actually considered sending me to Durmstrang rather than Hogwarts, you know. He knows the headmaster, you see. Well, you know his opinion of Dumbledore — the man’s such a Mudblood-lover — and Durmstrang doesn’t admit that sort of riffraff. But Mother didn’t like the idea of me going to school so far away. Father says Durmstrang takes a far more sensible line than Hogwarts about the Dark Arts. Durmstrang students actually learn them, not just the defense rubbish we do. . . ."
"So he thinks Durmstrang would have suited him, does he?” she said angrily. “I wish he had gone, then we wouldn’t have to put up with him."
"Durmstrang’s another Wizarding school?"
"Yes,” said Hermione sniffily, “and it’s got a horrible reputation. According to An Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe, it puts a lot of emphasis on the Dark Arts."
"I think I’ve heard of it,” said Ron vaguely. “Where is it? What country?"
"Well, nobody knows, do they?"
"Er — why not?"
"There’s traditionally been a lot of rivalry between all the magic schools. Durmstrang and Beauxbatons like to conceal their whereabouts so nobody can steal their secrets,"
"Come off it,” said Ron, starting to laugh. “Durmstrang’s got to be about the same size as Hogwarts — how are you going to hide a great big castle?"
"But Hogwarts is hidden,” said Hermione, in surprise. “Everyone knows that . . . well, everyone who’s read Hogwarts: A History, anyway."
"Just you, then,” said Ron. “So go on — how d’you hide a place like Hogwarts?"
"It’s bewitched,” said Hermione. “If a Muggle looks at it, all they see is a moldering old ruin with a sign over the entrance saying DANGER, DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE."
"So Durmstrang’ll just look like a ruin to an outsider too?"
"Maybe,” said Hermione, shrugging, “or it might have Muggle-repelling charms on it, like the World Cup stadium. And to keep foreign wizards from finding it, they’ll have made it Unplottable —"
"Come again?"
"Well, you can enchant a building so it’s impossible to plot on a map, can’t you?"
"Er . . . if you say so,"
"But I think Durmstrang must be somewhere in the far north,” said Hermione thoughtfully. “Somewhere very cold, because they’ve got fur capes as part of their uniforms."
"Ah, think of the possibilities,” said Ron dreamily. “It would’ve been so easy to push Malfoy off a glacier and make it look like an accident. . . . Shame his mother likes him. . . ."
"Troy — Mullet — Moran!"
"Gran didn’t want to go,” he said miserably. “Wouldn’t buy tickets. It sounded amazing though."
"It was,” said Ron. “Look at this, Neville. . . ."
"Oh wow,"
"We saw him right up close, as well,” said Ron. “We were in the Top Box —"
"For the first and last time in your life, Weasley."
"Don’t remember asking you to join us, Malfoy,"
"Weasley . . . what is that?"
"Look at this!” said Malfoy in ecstasy, holding up Ron’s robes and showing Crabbe and Goyle, “Weasley, you weren’t thinking of wearing these, were you? I mean — they were very fashionable in about 1890. . . ."
"Eat dung, Malfoy!"
"So . . . going to enter, Weasley? Going to try and bring a bit of glory to the family name? There’s money involved as well, you know . . . you’d be able to afford some decent robes if you won. . . ."
"What are you talking about?"
"Are you going to enter?” Malfoy repeated. “I suppose you will, Potter? You never miss a chance to show off, do you?"
"Either explain what you’re on about or go away, Malfoy,"
"Don’t tell me you don’t know?” he said delightedly. “You’ve got a father and brother at the Ministry and you don’t even know? My God, my father told me about it ages ago . . . heard it from Cornelius Fudge. But then, Father’s always associated with the top people at the Ministry. . . . Maybe your father’s too junior to know about it, Weasley . . . yes . . . they probably don’t talk about important stuff in front of him. . . ."
"Ron!” said Hermione reproachfully, and she pulled out her wand, muttered “Reparo!"
"Well . . . making it look like he knows everything and we don’t. . . .” Ron snarled. “‘Father’s always associated with the top people at the Ministry.’ . . . Dad could’ve got a promotion any time . . . he just likes it where he is. . . ."
"Of course he does,” said Hermione quietly. “Don’t let Malfoy get to you, Ron —"
"Him! Get to me!? As if!"
"Hi, Hagrid!"
"All righ’, Harry?” Hagrid bellowed back, waving. “See yeh at the feast if we don’ drown!"
"Oooh, I wouldn’t fancy crossing the lake in this weather,"
"Blimey,” said Ron, shaking his head and sending water everywhere, “if that keeps up the lake’s going to overflow. I’m soak — ARRGH!"
"PEEVES!” yelled an angry voice. “Peeves, come down here at ONCE!"
"Ouch — sorry, Miss Granger —"
"That’s all right, Professor!"
"Peeves, get down here NOW!"
"Not doing nothing!” cackled Peeves, lobbing a water bomb at several fifth-year girls, who screamed and dived into the Great Hall. “Already wet, aren’t they? Little squirts! Wheeeeeeeeee!"
"I shall call the headmaster!” shouted Professor McGonagall. “I’m warning you, Peeves —"
"Well, move along, then!” said Professor McGonagall sharply to the bedraggled crowd. “Into the Great Hall, come on!"
"Good evening,"
"Says who?” said Harry, taking off his sneakers and emptying them of water. “Hope they hurry up with the Sorting. I’m starving."
"Hiya, Harry!"
"Hi, Colin,"
"Harry, guess what? Guess what, Harry? My brother’s starting! My brother Dennis!"
"Er — good,"
"He’s really excited!” said Colin, practically bouncing up and down in his seat. “I just hope he’s in Gryffindor! Keep your fingers crossed, eh, Harry?"
"Er — yeah, all right,” said Harry. He turned back to Hermione, Ron, and Nearly Headless Nick. “Brothers and sisters usually go in the same Houses, don’t they?"
"Oh no, not necessarily,” said Hermione. “Parvati Patil’s twin’s in Ravenclaw, and they’re identical. You’d think they’d be together, wouldn’t you?"
"Where’s the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher?"
"Maybe they couldn’t get anyone!"
"Oh hurry up,” Ron moaned, beside Harry, “I could eat a hippogriff."
"That’s not the song it sang when it Sorted us,"
"Sings a different one every year,” said Ron. “It’s got to be a pretty boring life, hasn’t it, being a hat? I suppose it spends all year making up the next one."
"When I call out your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool,"
"Ackerley, Stewart!"
"RAVENCLAW!"
"Baddock, Malcolm!"
"SLYTHERIN!"
"Branstone, Eleanor!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Cauldwell, Owen!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Creevey, Dennis!"
"GRYFFINDOR!"
"Colin, I fell in!” he said shrilly, throwing himself into an empty seat. “It was brilliant! And something in the water grabbed me and pushed me back in the boat!"
"Cool!” said Colin, just as excitedly. “It was probably the giant squid, Dennis!"
"Wow!"
"Dennis! Dennis! See that boy down there? The one with the black hair and glasses? See him? Know who he is, Dennis?"
"Oh hurry up,"
"Now, Ron, the Sorting’s much more important than food,” said Nearly Headless Nick as “Madley, Laura!"
"’Course it is, if you’re dead,"
"I do hope this year’s batch of Gryffindors are up to scratch,” said Nearly Headless Nick, applauding as “McDonald, Natalie!” joined the Gryffindor table. “We don’t want to break our winning streak, do we?"
"Pritchard, Graham!"
"SLYTHERIN!"
"Quirke, Orla!"
"RAVENCLAW!"
"Whitby, Kevin!”(“HUFFLEPUFF!"
"About time,"
"I have only two words to say to you,” he told them, his deep voice echoing around the Hall. “Tuck in."
"Hear, hear!"
"Aaah, ’at’s be’er,"
"You’re lucky there’s a feast at all tonight, you know,” said Nearly Headless Nick. “There was trouble in the kitchens earlier."
"Why? Wha’ ’appened?"
"Peeves, of course,” said Nearly Headless Nick, shaking his head, which wobbled dangerously. He pulled his ruff a little higher up on his neck. “The usual argument, you know. He wanted to attend the feast — well, it’s quite out of the question, you know what he’s like, utterly uncivilized, can’t see a plate of food without throwing it. We held a ghost’s council — the Fat Friar was all for giving him the chance — but most wisely, in my opinion, the Bloody Baron put his foot down."
"Yeah, we thought Peeves seemed hacked off about something,” said Ron darkly. “So what did he do in the kitchens?"
"Oh the usual,” said Nearly Headless Nick, shrugging. “Wreaked havoc and mayhem. Pots and pans everywhere. Place swimming in soup. Terrified the house-elves out of their wits —"
"There are house-elves here?” she said, staring, horror-struck, at Nearly Headless Nick. “Here at Hogwarts?"
"Certainly,” said Nearly Headless Nick, looking surprised at her reaction. “The largest number in any dwelling in Britain, I believe. Over a hundred."
"I’ve never seen one!"
"Well, they hardly ever leave the kitchen by day, do they?” said Nearly Headless Nick. “They come out at night to do a bit of cleaning . . . see to the fires and so on. . . . I mean, you’re not supposed to see them, are you? That’s the mark of a good house-elf, isn’t it, that you don’t know it’s there?"
"But they get paid?” she said. “They get holidays, don’t they? And — and sick leave, and pensions, and everything?"
"Sick leave and pensions?” he said, pushing his head back onto his shoulders and securing it once more with his ruff. “House-elves don’t want sick leave and pensions!"
"Oh c’mon, ’Er-my-knee,” said Ron, accidentally spraying Harry with bits of Yorkshire pudding. “Oops — sorry, ’Arry —” He swallowed. “You won’t get them sick leave by starving yourself!"
"Slave labor,” said Hermione, breathing hard through her nose. “That’s what made this dinner. Slave labor."
"Treacle tart, Hermione!” said Ron, deliberately wafting its smell toward her. “Spotted dick, look! Chocolate gateau!"
"So!” said Dumbledore, smiling around at them all. “Now that we are all fed and watered,” (“Hmph!"
"Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me to tell you that the list of objects forbidden inside the castle has this year been extended to include Screaming Yo-yos, Fanged Frisbees, and Ever-Bashing Boomerangs. The full list comprises some four hundred and thirty-seven items, I believe, and can be viewed in Mr. Filch’s office, if anybody would like to check it."
"It is also my painful duty to inform you that the Inter-House Quidditch Cup will not take place this year."
"What?” Harry gasped. He looked around at Fred and George, his fellow members of the Quidditch team. They were mouthing soundlessly at Dumbledore, apparently too appalled to speak. Dumbledore went on, “This is due to an event that will be starting in October, and continuing throughout the school year, taking up much of the teachers’ time and energy — but I am sure you will all enjoy it immensely. I have great pleasure in announcing that this year at Hogwarts —"
"May I introduce our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher?” said Dumbledore brightly into the silence. “Professor Moody."
"Moody?” Harry muttered to Ron. “Mad-Eye Moody? The one your dad went to help this morning?"
"Must be,"
"What happened to him?” Hermione whispered. “What happened to his face?"
"Dunno,"
"As I was saying,” he said, smiling at the sea of students before him, all of whom were still gazing transfixed at Mad-Eye Moody, “we are to have the honor of hosting a very exciting event over the coming months, an event that has not been held for over a century. It is my very great pleasure to inform you that the Triwizard Tournament will be taking place at Hogwarts this year."
"You’re JOKING!"
"I am not joking, Mr. Weasley,” he said, “though now that you mention it, I did hear an excellent one over the summer about a troll, a hag, and a leprechaun who all go into a bar . . ."
"Er — but maybe this is not the time . . . no . . ."
"The Triwizard Tournament was first established some seven hundred years ago as a friendly competition between the three largest European schools of wizardry: Hogwarts, Beauxbatons, and Durmstrang. A champion was selected to represent each school, and the three champions competed in three magical tasks. The schools took it in turns to host the tournament once every five years, and it was generally agreed to be a most excellent way of establishing ties between young witches and wizards of different nationalities — until, that is, the death toll mounted so high that the tournament was discontinued."
"Death toll?"
"There have been several attempts over the centuries to reinstate the tournament,"
"The Heads of Beauxbatons and Durmstrang will be arriving with their shortlisted contenders in October, and the selection of the three champions will take place at Halloween. An impartial judge will decide which students are most worthy to compete for the Triwizard Cup, the glory of their school, and a thousand Galleons personal prize money."
"I’m going for it!"
"Eager though I know all of you will be to bring the Triwizard Cup to Hogwarts,” he said, “the Heads of the participating schools, along with the Ministry of Magic, have agreed to impose an age restriction on contenders this year. Only students who are of age — that is to say, seventeen years or older — will be allowed to put forward their names for consideration. This” — Dumbledore raised his voice slightly, for several people had made noises of outrage at these words, and the Weasley twins were suddenly looking furious — “is a measure we feel is necessary, given that the tournament tasks will still be difficult and dangerous, whatever precautions we take, and it is highly unlikely that students below sixth and seventh year will be able to cope with them. I will personally be ensuring that no underage student hoodwinks our impartial judge into making them Hogwarts champion."
"The delegations from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang will be arriving in October and remaining with us for the greater part of this year. I know that you will all extend every courtesy to our foreign guests while they are with us, and will give your whole-hearted support to the Hogwarts champion when he or she is selected. And now, it is late, and I know how important it is to you all to be alert and rested as you enter your lessons tomorrow morning. Bedtime! Chop chop!"
"They can’t do that!” said George Weasley, who had not joined the crowd moving toward the door, but was standing up and glaring at Dumbledore. “We’re seventeen in April, why can’t we have a shot?"
"They’re not stopping me entering,” said Fred stubbornly, also scowling at the top table. “The champions’ll get to do all sorts of stuff you’d never be allowed to do normally. And a thousand Galleons prize money!"
"Yeah,” said Ron, a faraway look on his face. “Yeah, a thousand Galleons . . ."
"Come on,” said Hermione, “we’ll be the only ones left here if you don’t move."
"Who’s this impartial judge who’s going to decide who the champions are?"
"Dunno,” said Fred, “but it’s them we’ll have to fool. I reckon a couple of drops of Aging Potion might do it, George. . . ."
"Dumbledore knows you’re not of age, though,"
"Yeah, but he’s not the one who decides who the champion is, is he?” said Fred shrewdly. “Sounds to me like once this judge knows who wants to enter, he’ll choose the best from each school and never mind how old they are. Dumbledore’s trying to stop us giving our names."
"People have died, though!"
"Yeah,” said Fred airily, “but that was years ago, wasn’t it? Anyway, where’s the fun without a bit of risk? Hey, Ron, what if we find out how to get ’round Dumbledore? Fancy entering?"
"What d’you reckon?” Ron asked Harry. “Be cool to enter, wouldn’t it? But I s’pose they might want someone older. . . . Dunno if we’ve learned enough. . . ."
"I definitely haven’t,"
"I expect my gran’d want me to try, though. She’s always going on about how I should be upholding the family honor. I’ll just have to — oops. . . ."
"Shut it, you,"
"Password?"
"Balderdash,” said George, “a prefect downstairs told me."
"Slave labor,"
"Mental,"
"I might go in for it, you know,” Ron said sleepily through the darkness, “if Fred and George find out how to . . . the tournament . . . you never know, do you?"
"S’pose not. . . ."
"Today’s not bad . . . outside all morning,” said Ron, who was running his finger down his schedule. “Herbology with the Hufflepuffs and Care of Magical Creatures . . . damn it, we’re still with the Slytherins. . . ."
"Double Divination this afternoon,"
"You should have given it up like me, shouldn’t you?” said Hermione briskly, buttering herself some toast. “Then you’d be doing something sensible like Arithmancy."
"You’re eating again, I notice,"
"I’ve decided there are better ways of making a stand about elf rights,"
"Yeah . . . and you were hungry,"
"Bubotubers,” Professor Sprout told them briskly. “They need squeezing. You will collect the pus —"
"The what?"
"Pus, Finnigan, pus,” said Professor Sprout, “and it’s extremely valuable, so don’t waste it. You will collect the pus, I say, in these bottles. Wear your dragon-hide gloves; it can do funny things to the skin when undiluted, bubotuber pus."
"This’ll keep Madam Pomfrey happy,” said Professor Sprout, stoppering the last bottle with a cork. “An excellent remedy for the more stubborn forms of acne, bubotuber pus. Should stop students resorting to desperate measures to rid themselves of pimples."
"Like poor Eloise Midgen,” said Hannah Abbott, a Hufflepuff, in a hushed voice. “She tried to curse hers off."
"Silly girl,” said Professor Sprout, shaking her head. “But Madam Pomfrey fixed her nose back on in the end."
"Mornin’!” Hagrid said, grinning at Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “Be’er wait fer the Slytherins, they won’ want ter miss this — Blast-Ended Skrewts!"
"Come again?"
"Eurgh!"
"Eurgh"
"On’y jus’ hatched,” said Hagrid proudly, “so yeh’ll be able ter raise ’em yerselves! Thought we’d make a bit of a project of it!"
"And why would we want to raise them?"
"I mean, what do they do?” asked Malfoy. “What is the point of them?"
"Tha’s next lesson, Malfoy. Yer jus’ feedin’ ’em today. Now, yeh’ll wan’ ter try ’em on a few diff’rent things — I’ve never had ’em before, not sure what they’ll go fer — I got ant eggs an’ frog livers an’ a bit o’ grass snake — just try ’em out with a bit of each."
"First pus and now this,"
"Ouch!” yelled Dean Thomas after about ten minutes. “It got me!"
"Its end exploded!"
"Ah, yeah, that can happen when they blast off,"
"Eurgh!” said Lavender Brown again. “Eurgh, Hagrid, what’s that pointy thing on it?"
"Ah, some of ’em have got stings,” said Hagrid enthusiastically (Lavender quickly withdrew her hand from the box). “I reckon they’re the males. . . . The females’ve got sorta sucker things on their bellies. . . . I think they might be ter suck blood."
"Well, I can certainly see why we’re trying to keep them alive,” said Malfoy sarcastically. “Who wouldn’t want pets that can burn, sting, and bite all at once?"
"Just because they’re not very pretty, it doesn’t mean they’re not useful,” Hermione snapped. “Dragon blood’s amazingly magical, but you wouldn’t want a dragon for a pet, would you?"
"Well, at least the skrewts are small,"
"They are now,” said Hermione in an exasperated voice, “but once Hagrid’s found out what they eat, I expect they’ll be six feet long."
"Well, that won’t matter if they turn out to cure seasickness or something, will it?"
"You know perfectly well I only said that to shut Malfoy up,” said Hermione. “As a matter of fact I think he’s right. The best thing to do would be to stamp on the lot of them before they start attacking us all."
"Er — is this the new stand on elf rights?” said Ron. “You’re going to make yourself puke instead?"
"No,” said Hermione, with as much dignity as she could muster with her mouth bulging with sprouts. “I just want to get to the library."
"What?” said Ron in disbelief. “Hermione — it’s the first day back! We haven’t even got homework yet!"
"See you at dinner!"
"Good day,"
"You are preoccupied, my dear,” she said mournfully to Harry. “My inner eye sees past your brave face to the troubled soul within. And I regret to say that your worries are not baseless. I see difficult times ahead for you, alas . . . most difficult . . . I fear the thing you dread will indeed come to pass . . . and perhaps sooner than you think. . . ."
"My dears, it is time for us to consider the stars,” she said. “The movements of the planets and the mysterious portents they reveal only to those who understand the steps of the celestial dance. Human destiny may be deciphered by the planetary rays, which intermingle . . ."
"‘I fear the thing you dread will indeed come to pass . . .’"
"Harry!"
"What?"
"I was saying, my dear, that you were clearly born under the baleful influence of Saturn,"
"Born under — what, sorry?"
"Saturn, dear, the planet Saturn!” said Professor Trelawney, sounding definitely irritated that he wasn’t riveted by this news. “I was saying that Saturn was surely in a position of power in the heavens at the moment of your birth. . . . Your dark hair . . . your mean stature . . . tragic losses so young in life . . . I think I am right in saying, my dear, that you were born in midwinter?"
"No,” said Harry, “I was born in July."
"I’ve got two Neptunes here,” said Harry after a while, frowning down at his piece of parchment, “that can’t be right, can it?"
"Aaaaah,” said Ron, imitating Professor Trelawney’s mystical whisper, “when two Neptunes appear in the sky, it is a sure sign that a midget in glasses is being born, Harry. . . ."
"Oh Professor, look! I think I’ve got an unaspected planet! Oooh, which one’s that, Professor?"
"It is Uranus, my dear,"
"Can I have a look at Uranus too, Lavender?"
"A detailed analysis of the way the planetary movements in the coming month will affect you, with reference to your personal chart,” she snapped, sounding much more like Professor McGonagall than her usual airy-fairy self. “I want it ready to hand in next Monday, and no excuses!"
"Miserable old bat,” said Ron bitterly as they joined the crowds descending the staircases back to the Great Hall and dinner. “That’ll take all weekend, that will. . . ."
"Lots of homework?” said Hermione brightly, catching up with them. “Professor Vector didn’t give us any at all!"
"Well, bully for Professor Vector,"
"Weasley! Hey, Weasley!"
"What?"
"Your dad’s in the paper, Weasley!"
"Imagine them not even getting his name right, Weasley. It’s almost as though he’s a complete nonentity, isn’t it?"
"policemen”) over a number of highly aggressive dustbins. Mr. Weasley appears to have rushed to the aid of “Mad-Eye"
"And there’s a picture, Weasley!” said Malfoy, flipping the paper over and holding it up. “A picture of your parents outside their house — if you can call it a house! Your mother could do with losing a bit of weight, couldn’t she?"
"Get stuffed, Malfoy,” said Harry. “C’mon, Ron. . . ."
"Oh yeah, you were staying with them this summer, weren’t you, Potter?” sneered Malfoy. “So tell me, is his mother really that porky, or is it just the picture?"
"You know your mother, Malfoy?” said Harry — both he and Hermione had grabbed the back of Ron’s robes to stop him from launching himself at Malfoy — “that expression she’s got, like she’s got dung under her nose? Has she always looked like that, or was it just because you were with her?"
"Don’t you dare insult my mother, Potter."
"Keep your fat mouth shut, then,"
"OH NO YOU DON’T, LADDIE!"
"Did he get you?"
"No,” said Harry, “missed."
"LEAVE IT!"
"Leave — what?"
"Not you — him!"
"I don’t think so!"
"I don’t like people who attack when their opponent’s back’s turned,” growled Moody as the ferret bounced higher and higher, squealing in pain. “Stinking, cowardly, scummy thing to do. . . ."
"Never — do — that — again —"
"Professor Moody!"
"Hello, Professor McGonagall,"
"What — what are you doing?"
"Teaching,"
"Teach — Moody, is that a student?"
"Yep,"
"No!"
"Moody, we never use Transfiguration as a punishment!” said Professor McGonagall weakly. “Surely Professor Dumbledore told you that?"
"He might’ve mentioned it, yeah,” said Moody, scratching his chin unconcernedly, “but I thought a good sharp shock —"
"We give detentions, Moody! Or speak to the offender’s Head of House!"
"I’ll do that, then,"
"my father"
"Oh yeah?” said Moody quietly, limping forward a few steps, the dull clunk of his wooden leg echoing around the hall. “Well, I know your father of old, boy. . . . You tell him Moody’s keeping a close eye on his son . . . you tell him that from me. . . . Now, your Head of House’ll be Snape, will it?"
"Yes,"
"Another old friend,” growled Moody. “I’ve been looking forward to a chat with old Snape. . . . Come on, you. . . ."
"Don’t talk to me,"
"Why not?"
"Because I want to fix that in my memory forever,” said Ron, his eyes closed and an uplifted expression on his face. “Draco Malfoy, the amazing bouncing ferret . . ."
"He could have really hurt Malfoy, though,” she said. “It was good, really, that Professor McGonagall stopped it —"
"Hermione!” said Ron furiously, his eyes snapping open again, “you’re ruining the best moment of my life!"
"Don’t tell me you’re going back to the library this evening?"
"Got to,” said Hermione thickly. “Loads to do."
"But you told us Professor Vector —"
"It’s not schoolwork,"
"Moody!” he said. “How cool is he?"
"Beyond cool,"
"Supercool,” said the twins’ best friend, Lee Jordan, sliding into the seat beside George. “We had him this afternoon,"
"What was it like?"
"Never had a lesson like it,"
"He knows, man,"
"Knows what?"
"Knows what it’s like to be out there doing it,"
"Doing what?"
"Fighting the Dark Arts,"
"He’s seen it all,"
"’Mazing,"
"We haven’t got him till Thursday!"
"You know why Snape’s in such a foul mood, don’t you?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Moody."
"I reckon Snape’s a bit scared of him, you know,"
"Imagine if Moody turned Snape into a horned toad,” said Ron, his eyes misting over, “and bounced him all around his dungeon. . . ."
"Been in the —"
"Library.” Harry finished her sentence for her. “C’mon, quick, or we won’t get decent seats."
"You can put those away,” he growled, stumping over to his desk and sitting down, “those books. You won’t need them."
"Right then,” he said, when the last person had declared themselves present, “I’ve had a letter from Professor Lupin about this class. Seems you’ve had a pretty thorough grounding in tackling Dark creatures — you’ve covered boggarts, Red Caps, hinkypunks, grindylows, Kappas, and werewolves, is that right?"
"But you’re behind — very behind — on dealing with curses,” said Moody. “So I’m here to bring you up to scratch on what wizards can do to each other. I’ve got one year to teach you how to deal with Dark —"
"What, aren’t you staying?"
"You’ll be Arthur Weasley’s son, eh?” Moody said. “Your father got me out of a very tight corner a few days ago. . . . Yeah, I’m staying just the one year. Special favor to Dumbledore. . . . One year, and then back to my quiet retirement."
"So — straight into it. Curses. They come in many strengths and forms. Now, according to the Ministry of Magic, I’m supposed to teach you countercurses and leave it at that. I’m not supposed to show you what illegal Dark curses look like until you’re in the sixth year. You’re not supposed to be old enough to deal with it till then. But Professor Dumbledore’s got a higher opinion of your nerves, he reckons you can cope, and I say, the sooner you know what you’re up against, the better. How are you supposed to defend yourself against something you’ve never seen? A wizard who’s about to put an illegal curse on you isn’t going to tell you what he’s about to do. He’s not going to do it nice and polite to your face. You need to be prepared. You need to be alert and watchful. You need to put that away, Miss Brown, when I’m talking."
"So . . . do any of you know which curses are most heavily punished by Wizarding law?"
"Er,” said Ron tentatively, “my dad told me about one. . . . Is it called the Imperius Curse, or something?"
"Ah, yes,” said Moody appreciatively. “Your father would know that one. Gave the Ministry a lot of trouble at one time, the Imperius Curse."
"Imperio!"
"Think it’s funny, do you?” he growled. “You’d like it, would you, if I did it to you?"
"Total control,” said Moody quietly as the spider balled itself up and began to roll over and over. “I could make it jump out of the window, drown itself, throw itself down one of your throats . . ."
"Years back, there were a lot of witches and wizards being controlled by the Imperius Curse,"
"The Imperius Curse can be fought, and I’ll be teaching you how, but it takes real strength of character, and not everyone’s got it. Better avoid being hit with it if you can. CONSTANT VIGILANCE!"
"Anyone else know one? Another illegal curse?"
"Yes?"
"There’s one — the Cruciatus Curse,"
"Your name’s Longbottom?"
"The Cruciatus Curse,” said Moody. “Needs to be a bit bigger for you to get the idea,” he said, pointing his wand at the spider. “Engorgio!"
"Crucio!"
"Stop it!"
"Reducio,"
"Pain,"
"Right . . . anyone know any others?"
"Yes?"
"Avada Kedavra,"
"Ah,” said Moody, another slight smile twisting his lopsided mouth. “Yes, the last and worst. Avada Kedavra . . . the Killing Curse."
"Avada Kedavra!"
"Not nice,” he said calmly. “Not pleasant. And there’s no countercurse. There’s no blocking it. Only one known person has ever survived it, and he’s sitting right in front of me."
"Now, if there’s no countercurse, why am I showing you? Because you’ve got to know. You’ve got to appreciate what the worst is. You don’t want to find yourself in a situation where you’re facing it. CONSTANT VIGILANCE!"
"Now . . . those three curses — Avada Kedavra, Imperius, and Cruciatus — are known as the Unforgivable Curses. The use of any one of them on a fellow human being is enough to earn a life sentence in Azkaban. That’s what you’re up against. That’s what I’ve got to teach you to fight. You need preparing. You need arming. But most of all, you need to practice constant, never-ceasing vigilance. Get out your quills . . . copy this down. . . ."
"Did you see it twitch?” “— and when he killed it — just like that!"
"Hurry up,"
"Not the ruddy library again?"
"No,” said Hermione curtly, pointing up a side passage. “Neville."
"Neville?"
"Oh hello,” he said, his voice much higher than usual. “Interesting lesson, wasn’t it? I wonder what’s for dinner, I’m — I’m starving, aren’t you?"
"Neville, are you all right?"
"Oh yes, I’m fine,” Neville gabbled in the same unnaturally high voice. “Very interesting dinner — I mean lesson — what’s for eating?"
"Neville, what — ?"
"It’s all right, sonny,” he said to Neville. “Why don’t you come up to my office? Come on . . . we can have a cup of tea. . . ."
"You all right, are you, Potter?"
"Yes,"
"You’ve got to know. It seems harsh, maybe, but you’ve got to know. No point pretending . . . well . . . come on, Longbottom, I’ve got some books that might interest you."
"What was that about?"
"I don’t know,"
"Some lesson, though, eh?” said Ron to Harry as they set off for the Great Hall. “Fred and George were right, weren’t they? He really knows his stuff, Moody, doesn’t he? When he did Avada Kedavra, the way that spider just died, just snuffed it right —"
"Wouldn’t Moody and Dumbledore be in trouble with the Ministry if they knew we’d seen the curses?"
"Yeah, probably,” said Ron. “But Dumbledore’s always done things his way, hasn’t he, and Moody’s been getting in trouble for years, I reckon. Attacks first and asks questions later — look at his dustbins. Balderdash."
"Shall we get our Divination stuff, then?"
"I s’pose,"
"You all right, Neville?"
"Oh yes,” said Neville, “I’m fine, thanks. Just reading this book Professor Moody lent me. . . ."
"Apparently, Professor Sprout told Professor Moody I’m really good at Herbology,” Neville said. There was a faint note of pride in his voice that Harry had rarely heard there before. “He thought I’d like this."
"I haven’t got a clue what this lot’s supposed to mean,"
"You know,” said Ron, whose hair was on end because of all the times he had run his fingers through it in frustration, “I think it’s back to the old Divination standby."
"What — make it up?"
"Yeah,"
"Next Monday,” he said as he scribbled, “I am likely to develop a cough, owing to the unlucky conjunction of Mars and Jupiter.” He looked up at Harry. “You know her — just put in loads of misery, she’ll lap it up."
"Right,” said Harry, crumpling up his first attempt and lobbing it over the heads of a group of chattering first years into the fire. “Okay . . . on Monday, I will be in danger of — er — burns."
"Yeah, you will be,” said Ron darkly, “we’re seeing the skrewts again on Monday. Okay, Tuesday, I’ll . . . erm . . ."
"Lose a treasured possession,"
"Good one,” said Ron, copying it down. “Because of . . . erm . . . Mercury. Why don’t you get stabbed in the back by someone you thought was a friend?"
"Yeah . . . cool . . .” said Harry, scribbling it down, “because . . . Venus is in the twelfth house."
"And on Wednesday, I think I’ll come off worst in a fight."
"Aaah, I was going to have a fight. Okay, I’ll lose a bet."
"Yeah, you’ll be betting I’ll win my fight. . . ."
"No — that sounds like we’re accusing him. Got to be careful . . ."
"Hello,” she said, “I’ve just finished!"
"So have I!"
"Not going to have a very good month, are you?"
"Ah well, at least I’m forewarned,"
"You seem to be drowning twice,"
"Oh am I?” said Ron, peering down at his predictions. “I’d better change one of them to getting trampled by a rampaging hippogriff."
"Don’t you think it’s a bit obvious you’ve made these up?"
"How dare you!” said Ron, in mock outrage. “We’ve been working like house-elves here!"
"It’s just an expression,"
"What’s in the box?"
"Funny you should ask,"
"‘Spew’?” said Harry, picking up a badge and looking at it. “What’s this about?"
"Not spew,” said Hermione impatiently. “It’s S-P-E-W. Stands for the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare."
"Never heard of it,"
"Well, of course you haven’t,” said Hermione briskly, “I’ve only just started it."
"Yeah?” said Ron in mild surprise. “How many members have you got?"
"Well — if you two join — three,"
"And you think we want to walk around wearing badges saying ‘spew,’ do you?"
"S-P-E-W!” said Hermione hotly. “I was going to put Stop the Outrageous Abuse of Our Fellow Magical Creatures and Campaign for a Change in Their Legal Status — but it wouldn’t fit. So that’s the heading of our manifesto."
"I’ve been researching it thoroughly in the library. Elf enslavement goes back centuries. I can’t believe no one’s done anything about it before now."
"Hermione — open your ears,” said Ron loudly. “They. Like. It. They like being enslaved!"
"Our short-term aims,” said Hermione, speaking even more loudly than Ron, and acting as though she hadn’t heard a word, “are to secure house-elves fair wages and working conditions. Our long-term aims include changing the law about non-wand use, and trying to get an elf into the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, because they’re shockingly underrepresented."
"And how do we do all this?"
"We start by recruiting members,” said Hermione happily. “I thought two Sickles to join — that buys a badge — and the proceeds can fund our leaflet campaign. You’re treasurer, Ron — I’ve got you a collecting tin upstairs — and Harry, you’re secretary, so you might want to write down everything I’m saying now, as a record of our first meeting."
"Hedwig!"
"About time!"
"She’s got an answer!"
"What does it say?"
"He’s flying north?” Hermione whispered. “He’s coming back?"
"Dumbledore’s reading what signs?” said Ron, looking perplexed. “Harry — what’s up?"
"I shouldn’t’ve told him!"
"What are you on about?"
"It’s made him think he’s got to come back!” said Harry, now slamming his fist on the table so that Hedwig landed on the back of Ron’s chair, hooting indignantly. “Coming back, because he thinks I’m in trouble! And there’s nothing wrong with me! And I haven’t got anything for you,” Harry snapped at Hedwig, who was clicking her beak expectantly, “you’ll have to go up to the Owlery if you want food."
"Harry,"
"I’m going to bed,” said Harry shortly. “See you in the morning."
"Just find him, all right?” Harry said, stroking her back as he carried her on his arm to one of the holes in the wall. “Before the dementors do."
"That was a lie, Harry,” said Hermione sharply over breakfast, when he told her and Ron what he had done. “You didn’t imagine your scar hurting and you know it."
"So what?” said Harry. “He’s not going back to Azkaban because of me."
"Drop it,"
"But — but you said it’s illegal, Professor,” said Hermione uncertainly as Moody cleared away the desks with a sweep of his wand, leaving a large clear space in the middle of the room. “You said — to use it against another human was —"
"Dumbledore wants you taught what it feels like,” said Moody, his magical eye swiveling onto Hermione and fixing her with an eerie, unblinking stare. “If you’d rather learn the hard way — when someone’s putting it on you so they can control you completely — fine by me. You’re excused. Off you go."
"Potter,” Moody growled, “you next."
"Imperio!"
"Now, that’s more like it!"
"Look at that, you lot . . . Potter fought! He fought it, and he damn near beat it! We’ll try that again, Potter, and the rest of you, pay attention — watch his eyes, that’s where you see it — very good, Potter, very good indeed! They’ll have trouble controlling you!"
"The way he talks,” Harry muttered as he hobbled out of the Defense Against the Dark Arts class an hour later (Moody had insisted on putting Harry through his paces four times in a row, until Harry could throw off the curse entirely), “you’d think we were all going to be attacked any second."
"Yeah, I know,” said Ron, who was skipping on every alternate step. He had had much more difficulty with the curse than Harry, though Moody assured him the effects would wear off by lunchtime. “Talk about paranoid . . .” Ron glanced nervously over his shoulder to check that Moody was definitely out of earshot and went on. “No wonder they were glad to get shot of him at the Ministry. Did you hear him telling Seamus what he did to that witch who shouted ‘Boo’ behind him on April Fools’ Day? And when are we supposed to read up on resisting the Imperius Curse with everything else we’ve got to do?"
"You are now entering a most important phase of your magical education!” she told them, her eyes glinting dangerously behind her square spectacles. “Your Ordinary Wizarding Levels are drawing closer —"
"We don’t take O.W.L.s till fifth year!"
"Maybe not, Thomas, but believe me, you need all the preparation you can get! Miss Granger remains the only person in this class who has managed to turn a hedgehog into a satisfactory pincushion. I might remind you that your pincushion, Thomas, still curls up in fright if anyone approaches it with a pin!"
"project,"
"I will not,” said Draco Malfoy flatly when Hagrid had proposed this with the air of Father Christmas pulling an extra-large toy out of his sack. “I see enough of these foul things during lessons, thanks."
"Yeh’ll do wha’ yer told,” he growled, “or I’ll be takin’ a leaf outta Professor Moody’s book. . . . I hear yeh made a good ferret, Malfoy."
"Brilliant!” said Harry. “It’s Potions last thing on Friday! Snape won’t have time to poison us all!"
"Only a week away!” said Ernie Macmillan of Hufflepuff, emerging from the crowd, his eyes gleaming. “I wonder if Cedric knows? Think I’ll go and tell him. . . ."
"Cedric?"
"Diggory,” said Harry. “He must be entering the tournament."
"That idiot, Hogwarts champion?"
"He’s not an idiot. You just don’t like him because he beat Gryffindor at Quidditch,” said Hermione. “I’ve heard he’s a really good student — and he’s a prefect."
"You only like him because he’s handsome,"
"Excuse me, I don’t like people just because they’re handsome!"
"Lockhart!"
"Longbottom, kindly do not reveal that you can’t even perform a simple Switching Spell in front of anyone from Durmstrang!"
"It’s a bummer, all right,” George was saying gloomily to Fred. “But if he won’t talk to us in person, we’ll have to send him the letter after all. Or we’ll stuff it into his hand. He can’t avoid us forever."
"Who’s avoiding you?"
"Wish you would,"
"What’s a bummer?"
"Having a nosy git like you for a brother,"
"You two got any ideas on the Triwizard Tournament yet?” Harry asked. “Thought any more about trying to enter?"
"I asked McGonagall how the champions are chosen but she wasn’t telling,” said George bitterly. “She just told me to shut up and get on with Transfiguring my raccoon."
"Wonder what the tasks are going to be?” said Ron thoughtfully. “You know, I bet we could do them, Harry. We’ve done dangerous stuff before. . . ."
"Not in front of a panel of judges, you haven’t,” said Fred. “McGonagall says the champions get awarded points according to how well they’ve done the tasks."
"Who are the judges?"
"Well, the Heads of the participating schools are always on the panel,” said Hermione, and everyone looked around at her, rather surprised, “because all three of them were injured during the Tournament of 1792, when a cockatrice the champions were supposed to be catching went on the rampage."
"It’s all in Hogwarts: A History. Though, of course, that book’s not entirely reliable. A Revised History of Hogwarts would be a more accurate title. Or A Highly Biased and Selective History of Hogwarts, Which Glosses Over the Nastier Aspects of the School."
"What are you on about?"
"House-elves!” said Hermione, her eyes flashing. “Not once, in over a thousand pages, does Hogwarts: A History mention that we are all colluding in the oppression of a hundred slaves!"
"You do realize that your sheets are changed, your fires lit, your classrooms cleaned, and your food cooked by a group of magical creatures who are unpaid and enslaved?"
"Listen, have you ever been down in the kitchens, Hermione?"
"No, of course not,” said Hermione curtly, “I hardly think students are supposed to —"
"Well, we have,” said George, indicating Fred, “loads of times, to nick food. And we’ve met them, and they’re happy. They think they’ve got the best job in the world —"
"That’s because they’re uneducated and brainwashed!"
"Why d’you have to keep changing owls?"
"Hedwig’ll attract too much attention,” said Hermione at once. “She stands out. A snowy owl that keeps returning to wherever he’s hiding . . . I mean, they’re not native birds, are they?"
"Thanks, Hedwig,"
"Weasley, straighten your hat,” Professor McGonagall snapped at Ron. “Miss Patil, take that ridiculous thing out of your hair."
"Follow me, please,” said Professor McGonagall. “First years in front . . . no pushing. . . ."
"Nearly six,” said Ron, checking his watch and then staring down the drive that led to the front gates. “How d’you reckon they’re coming? The train?"
"I doubt it,"
"How, then? Broomsticks?"
"I don’t think so . . . not from that far away. . . ."
"A Portkey?” Ron suggested. “Or they could Apparate — maybe you’re allowed to do it under seventeen wherever they come from?"
"You can’t Apparate inside the Hogwarts grounds, how often do I have to tell you?"
"always the same — we can’t resist showing off when we get together. . . ."
"Aha! Unless I am very much mistaken, the delegation from Beauxbatons approaches!"
"Where?"
"There!"
"It’s a dragon!"
"Don’t be stupid . . . it’s a flying house!"
"My dear Madame Maxime,” he said. “Welcome to Hogwarts."
"Dumbly-dorr,” said Madame Maxime in a deep voice. “I ’ope I find you well?"
"In excellent form, I thank you,"
"My pupils,"
"’As Karkaroff arrived yet?"
"He should be here any moment,” said Dumbledore. “Would you like to wait here and greet him or would you prefer to step inside and warm up a trifle?"
"Warm up, I think,” said Madame Maxime. “But ze ’orses —"
"Our Care of Magical Creatures teacher will be delighted to take care of them,” said Dumbledore, “the moment he has returned from dealing with a slight situation that has arisen with some of his other — er — charges."
"Skrewts,"
"My steeds require — er — forceful ’andling,” said Madame Maxime, looking as though she doubted whether any Care of Magical Creatures teacher at Hogwarts could be up to the job. “Zey are very strong. . . ."
"I assure you that Hagrid will be well up to the job,"
"Very well,” said Madame Maxime, bowing slightly. “Will you please inform zis ’Agrid zat ze ’orses drink only single-malt whiskey?"
"It will be attended to,"
"Come,"
"How big d’you reckon Durmstrang’s horses are going to be?"
"Well, if they’re any bigger than this lot, even Hagrid won’t be able to handle them,” said Harry. “That’s if he hasn’t been attacked by his skrewts. Wonder what’s up with them?"
"Maybe they’ve escaped,"
"Oh don’t say that,” said Hermione with a shudder. “Imagine that lot loose on the grounds. . . ."
"Can you hear something?"
"The lake!” yelled Lee Jordan, pointing down at it. “Look at the lake!"
"It’s a mast!"
"Dumbledore!” he called heartily as he walked up the slope. “How are you, my dear fellow, how are you?"
"Blooming, thank you, Professor Karkaroff,"
"Dear old Hogwarts,” he said, looking up at the castle and smiling; his teeth were rather yellow, and Harry noticed that his smile did not extend to his eyes, which remained cold and shrewd. “How good it is to be here, how good. . . . Viktor, come along, into the warmth . . . you don’t mind, Dumbledore? Viktor has a slight head cold. . . ."
"Harry — it’s Krum!"
"Krum, Harry! Viktor Krum!"
"For heaven’s sake, Ron, he’s only a Quidditch player,"
"Only a Quidditch player?” Ron said, looking at her as though he couldn’t believe his ears. “Hermione — he’s one of the best Seekers in the world! I had no idea he was still at school!"
"Oh I don’t believe it, I haven’t got a single quill on me —"
"D’you think he’d sign my hat in lipstick?"
"Really,"
"I’m getting his autograph if I can,” said Ron. “You haven’t got a quill, have you, Harry?"
"Nope, they’re upstairs in my bag,"
"It’s not that cold,” said Hermione defensively. “Why didn’t they bring cloaks?"
"Over here! Come and sit over here!” Ron hissed. “Over here! Hermione, budge up, make a space —"
"What?"
"Too late,"
"Yeah, that’s right, smarm up to him, Malfoy,” said Ron scathingly. “I bet Krum can see right through him, though . . . bet he gets people fawning over him all the time. . . . Where d’you reckon they’re going to sleep? We could offer him a space in our dormitory, Harry . . . I wouldn’t mind giving him my bed, I could kip on a camp bed."
"They look a lot happier than the Beauxbatons lot,"
"But there are only two extra people,” Harry said. “Why’s Filch putting out four chairs, who else is coming?"
"Eh?"
"Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, ghosts and — most particularly — guests,” said Dumbledore, beaming around at the foreign students. “I have great pleasure in welcoming you all to Hogwarts. I hope and trust that your stay here will be both comfortable and enjoyable."
"No one’s making you stay!"
"The tournament will be officially opened at the end of the feast,” said Dumbledore. “I now invite you all to eat, drink, and make yourselves at home!"
"What’s that?"
"Bouillabaisse,"
"Bless you,"
"It’s French,” said Hermione, “I had it on holiday summer before last. It’s very nice."
"I’ll take your word for it,"
"Skrewts doing all right, Hagrid?"
"Thrivin’,"
"Yeah, I’ll just bet they are,” said Ron quietly. “Looks like they’ve finally found a food they like, doesn’t it? Hagrid’s fingers."
"Excuse me, are you wanting ze bouillabaisse?"
"Yeah, have it,"
"You ’ave finished wiz it?"
"Yeah,” Ron said breathlessly. “Yeah, it was excellent."
"She’s a veela!"
"Of course she isn’t!” said Hermione tartly. “I don’t see anyone else gaping at her like an idiot!"
"I’m telling you, that’s not a normal girl!” said Ron, leaning sideways so he could keep a clear view of her. “They don’t make them like that at Hogwarts!"
"They make them okay at Hogwarts,"
"When you’ve both put your eyes back in,” said Hermione briskly, “you’ll be able to see who’s just arrived."
"What are they doing here?"
"They organized the Triwizard Tournament, didn’t they?” said Hermione. “I suppose they wanted to be here to see it start."
"The moment has come,” said Dumbledore, smiling around at the sea of upturned faces. “The Triwizard Tournament is about to start. I would like to say a few words of explanation before we bring in the casket —"
"The what?"
"— just to clarify the procedure that we will be following this year. But first, let me introduce, for those who do not know them, Mr. Bartemius Crouch, Head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation” — there was a smattering of polite applause — “and Mr. Ludo Bagman, Head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports."
"Mr. Bagman and Mr. Crouch have worked tirelessly over the last few months on the arrangements for the Triwizard Tournament,” Dumbledore continued, “and they will be joining myself, Professor Karkaroff, and Madame Maxime on the panel that will judge the champions’ efforts."
"champions,” the attentiveness of the listening students seemed to sharpen. Perhaps Dumbledore had noticed their sudden stillness, for he smiled as he said, “The casket, then, if you please, Mr. Filch."
"The instructions for the tasks the champions will face this year have already been examined by Mr. Crouch and Mr. Bagman,” said Dumbledore as Filch placed the chest carefully on the table before him, “and they have made the necessary arrangements for each challenge. There will be three tasks, spaced throughout the school year, and they will test the champions in many different ways . . . their magical prowess — their daring — their powers of deduction — and, of course, their ability to cope with danger."
"As you know, three champions compete in the tournament,” Dumbledore went on calmly, “one from each of the participating schools. They will be marked on how well they perform each of the tournament tasks and the champion with the highest total after task three will win the Triwizard Cup. The champions will be chosen by an impartial selector: the Goblet of Fire."
"Anybody wishing to submit themselves as champion must write their name and school clearly upon a slip of parchment and drop it into the goblet,"
"To ensure that no underage student yields to temptation,"
"Finally, I wish to impress upon any of you wishing to compete that this tournament is not to be entered into lightly. Once a champion has been selected by the Goblet of Fire, he or she is obliged to see the tournament through to the end. The placing of your name in the goblet constitutes a binding, magical contract. There can be no change of heart once you have become a champion. Please be very sure, therefore, that you are wholeheartedly prepared to play before you drop your name into the goblet. Now, I think it is time for bed. Good night to you all."
"An Age Line!” Fred Weasley said, his eyes glinting, as they all made their way across the Hall to the doors into the entrance hall. “Well, that should be fooled by an Aging Potion, shouldn’t it? And once your name’s in that goblet, you’re laughing — it can’t tell whether you’re seventeen or not!"
"But I don’t think anyone under seventeen will stand a chance,” said Hermione, “we just haven’t learned enough . . ."
"Speak for yourself,” said George shortly. “You’ll try and get in, won’t you, Harry?"
"Where is he?” said Ron, who wasn’t listening to a word of this conversation, but looking through the crowd to see what had become of Krum. “Dumbledore didn’t say where the Durmstrang people are sleeping, did he?"
"Back to the ship, then,” he was saying. “Viktor, how are you feeling? Did you eat enough? Should I send for some mulled wine from the kitchens?"
"Professor, I vood like some vine,"
"I wasn’t offering it to you, Poliakoff,” snapped Karkaroff, his warmly paternal air vanishing in an instant. “I notice you have dribbled food all down the front of your robes again, disgusting boy —"
"Thank you,"
"Yeah, that’s Harry Potter,"
"You!"
"Me,” said Moody grimly. “And unless you’ve got anything to say to Potter, Karkaroff, you might want to move. You’re blocking the doorway."
"Anyone put their name in yet?"
"All the Durmstrang lot,” she replied. “But I haven’t seen anyone from Hogwarts yet."
"Bet some of them put it in last night after we’d all gone to bed,” said Harry. “I would’ve if it had been me . . . wouldn’t have wanted everyone watching. What if the goblet just gobbed you right back out again?"
"Done it,” Fred said in a triumphant whisper to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “Just taken it."
"What?"
"The Aging Potion, dung brains,"
"One drop each,” said George, rubbing his hands together with glee. “We only need to be a few months older."
"We’re going to split the thousand Galleons between the three of us if one of us wins,"
"I’m not sure this is going to work, you know,” said Hermione warningly. “I’m sure Dumbledore will have thought of this."
"Ready?” Fred said to the other two, quivering with excitement. “C’mon, then — I’ll go first —"
"I did warn you,” said a deep, amused voice, and everyone turned to see Professor Dumbledore coming out of the Great Hall. He surveyed Fred and George, his eyes twinkling. “I suggest you both go up to Madam Pomfrey. She is already tending to Miss Fawcett, of Ravenclaw, and Mr. Summers, of Hufflepuff, both of whom decided to age themselves up a little too. Though I must say, neither of their beards is anything like as fine as yours."
"There’s a rumor going around that Warrington got up early and put his name in,” Dean told Harry. “That big bloke from Slytherin who looks like a sloth."
"We can’t have a Slytherin champion!"
"And all the Hufflepuffs are talking about Diggory,” said Seamus contemptuously. “But I wouldn’t have thought he’d have wanted to risk his good looks."
"Listen!"
"Well, I’ve done it! Just put my name in!"
"You’re kidding!"
"Are you seventeen, then?"
"’Course she is, can’t see a beard, can you?"
"I had my birthday last week,"
"Well, I’m glad someone from Gryffindor’s entering,” said Hermione. “I really hope you get it, Angelina!"
"Thanks, Hermione,"
"Yeah, better you than Pretty-Boy Diggory,"
"What’re we going to do today, then?"
"We haven’t been down to visit Hagrid yet,"
"Okay,” said Ron, “just as long as he doesn’t ask us to donate a few fingers to the skrewts."
"I’ve just realized — I haven’t asked Hagrid to join S.P.E.W. yet!” she said brightly. “Wait for me, will you, while I nip upstairs and get the badges?"
"What is it with her?"
"Hey, Ron,” said Harry suddenly. “It’s your friend . . ."
"What d’you reckon’ll happen to the ones who aren’t chosen?” Ron muttered to Harry as the veela-girl dropped her parchment into the Goblet of Fire. “Reckon they’ll go back to school, or hang around to watch the tournament?"
"Dunno,” said Harry. “Hang around, I suppose. . . . Madame Maxime’s staying to judge, isn’t she?"
"Where are they sleeping, then?"
"Oh good, hurry up,"
"’Bout time!” said Hagrid, when he’d flung open the door. “Thought you lot’d forgotten where I live!"
"We’ve been really busy, Hag —"
"Erm — where are the skrewts?"
"Out by the pumpkin patch,” said Hagrid happily. “They’re gettin’ massive, mus’ be nearly three foot long now. On’y trouble is, they’ve started killin’ each other."
"Oh no, really?"
"Yeah,” said Hagrid sadly. “’S’ okay, though, I’ve got ’em in separate boxes now. Still got abou’ twenty."
"Well, that’s lucky,"
"You wait,” he said, grinning. “You jus’ wait. Yer going ter see some stuff yeh’ve never seen before. Firs’ task . . . ah, but I’m not supposed ter say."
"Go on, Hagrid!"
"I don’ want ter spoil it fer yeh,” said Hagrid. “But it’s gonna be spectacular, I’ll tell yeh that. Them champions’re going ter have their work cut out. Never thought I’d live ter see the Triwizard Tournament played again!"
"It’d be doin’ ’em an unkindness, Hermione,” he said gravely, threading a massive bone needle with thick yellow yarn. “It’s in their nature ter look after humans, that’s what they like, see? Yeh’d be makin’ ’em unhappy ter take away their work, an’ insultin’ ’em if yeh tried ter pay ’em."
"But Harry set Dobby free, and he was over the moon about it!” said Hermione. “And we heard he’s asking for wages now!"
"Yeah, well, yeh get weirdos in every breed. I’m not sayin’ there isn’t the odd elf who’d take freedom, but yeh’ll never persuade most of ’em ter do it — no, nothin’ doin’, Hermione."
"I’ll come with yeh,” said Hagrid, putting away his darning. “Jus’ give us a sec."
"Hagrid, what’s that?"
"Eh?” said Hagrid, turning around with a large bottle in his hand. “Don’ yeh like it?"
"Is that aftershave?"
"Er — eau de cologne,” Hagrid muttered. He was blushing. “Maybe it’s a bit much,” he said gruffly. “I’ll go take it off, hang on . . ."
"Eau de cologne?” said Hermione in amazement. “Hagrid?"
"And what’s with the hair and the suit?"
"Look!"
"He’s going up to the castle with her!” said Hermione indignantly. “I thought he was waiting for us!"
"He fancies her!” said Ron incredulously. “Well, if they end up having children, they’ll be setting a world record — bet any baby of theirs would weigh about a ton."
"Ooh it’s them, look!"
"Hope it’s Angelina,"
"So do I!” said Hermione breathlessly. “Well, we’ll soon know!"
"Well, the goblet is almost ready to make its decision,” said Dumbledore. “I estimate that it requires one more minute. Now, when the champions’ names are called, I would ask them please to come up to the top of the Hall, walk along the staff table, and go through into the next chamber” — he indicated the door behind the staff table — “where they will be receiving their first instructions."
"Any second,"
"The champion for Durmstrang,” he read, in a strong, clear voice, “will be Viktor Krum."
"No surprises there!"
"Bravo, Viktor!” boomed Karkaroff, so loudly that everyone could hear him, even over all the applause. “Knew you had it in you!"
"The champion for Beauxbatons,” said Dumbledore, “is Fleur Delacour!"
"It’s her, Ron!"
"Oh look, they’re all disappointed,” Hermione said over the noise, nodding toward the remainder of the Beauxbatons party. “Disappointed"
"The Hogwarts champion,” he called, “is Cedric Diggory!"
"No!"
"Excellent!” Dumbledore called happily as at last the tumult died down. “Well, we now have our three champions. I am sure I can count upon all of you, including the remaining students from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang, to give your champions every ounce of support you can muster. By cheering your champion on, you will contribute in a very real —"
"Harry Potter."
"I didn’t put my name in,” Harry said blankly. “You know I didn’t."
"Harry Potter!” he called again. “Harry! Up here, if you please!"
"Go on,"
"Well . . . through the door, Harry,"
"What is it?” she said. “Do zey want us back in ze Hall?"
"Extraordinary!” he muttered, squeezing Harry’s arm. “Absolutely extraordinary! Gentlemen . . . lady,” he added, approaching the fireside and addressing the other three. “May I introduce — incredible though it may seem — the fourth Triwizard champion?"
"Oh, vairy funny joke, Meester Bagman."
"Joke?” Bagman repeated, bewildered. “No, no, not at all! Harry’s name just came out of the Goblet of Fire!"
"But evidently zair ’as been a mistake,” she said contemptuously to Bagman. “’E cannot compete. ’E is too young."
"Well . . . it is amazing,” said Bagman, rubbing his smooth chin and smiling down at Harry. “But, as you know, the age restriction was only imposed this year as an extra safety measure. And as his name’s come out of the goblet . . . I mean, I don’t think there can be any ducking out at this stage. . . . It’s down in the rules, you’re obliged . . . Harry will just have to do the best he —"
"Madame Maxime!” said Fleur at once, striding over to her headmistress. “Zey are saying zat zis little boy is to compete also!"
"What is ze meaning of zis, Dumbly-dorr?"
"I’d rather like to know that myself, Dumbledore,” said Professor Karkaroff. He was wearing a steely smile, and his blue eyes were like chips of ice. “Two Hogwarts champions? I don’t remember anyone telling me the host school is allowed two champions — or have I not read the rules carefully enough?"
"C’est impossible,” said Madame Maxime, whose enormous hand with its many superb opals was resting upon Fleur’s shoulder. “’Ogwarts cannot ’ave two champions. It is most injust."
"We were under the impression that your Age Line would keep out younger contestants, Dumbledore,” said Karkaroff, his steely smile still in place, though his eyes were colder than ever. “Otherwise, we would, of course, have brought along a wider selection of candidates from our own schools."
"It’s no one’s fault but Potter’s, Karkaroff,” said Snape softly. His black eyes were alight with malice. “Don’t go blaming Dumbledore for Potter’s determination to break rules. He has been crossing lines ever since he arrived here —"
"Thank you, Severus,"
"Did you put your name into the Goblet of Fire, Harry?"
"No,"
"Did you ask an older student to put it into the Goblet of Fire for you?"
"No,"
"Ah, but of course ’e is lying!"
"He could not have crossed the Age Line,” said Professor McGonagall sharply. “I am sure we are all agreed on that —"
"Dumbly-dorr must ’ave made a mistake wiz ze line,"
"It is possible, of course,"
"Dumbledore, you know perfectly well you did not make a mistake!” said Professor McGonagall angrily. “Really, what nonsense! Harry could not have crossed the line himself, and as Professor Dumbledore believes that he did not persuade an older student to do it for him, I’m sure that should be good enough for everybody else!"
"Mr. Crouch . . . Mr. Bagman,” said Karkaroff, his voice unctuous once more, “you are our — er — objective judges. Surely you will agree that this is most irregular?"
"We must follow the rules, and the rules state clearly that those people whose names come out of the Goblet of Fire are bound to compete in the tournament."
"Well, Barty knows the rule book back to front,"
"I insist upon resubmitting the names of the rest of my students,” said Karkaroff. He had dropped his unctuous tone and his smile now. His face wore a very ugly look indeed. “You will set up the Goblet of Fire once more, and we will continue adding names until each school has two champions. It’s only fair, Dumbledore."
"But Karkaroff, it doesn’t work like that,” said Bagman. “The Goblet of Fire’s just gone out — it won’t reignite until the start of the next tournament —"
"— in which Durmstrang will most certainly not be competing!” exploded Karkaroff. “After all our meetings and negotiations and compromises, I little expected something of this nature to occur! I have half a mind to leave now!"
"Empty threat, Karkaroff,” growled a voice from near the door. “You can’t leave your champion now. He’s got to compete. They’ve all got to compete. Binding magical contract, like Dumbledore said. Convenient, eh?"
"Convenient?” said Karkaroff. “I’m afraid I don’t understand you, Moody."
"Don’t you?” said Moody quietly. “It’s very simple, Karkaroff. Someone put Potter’s name in that goblet knowing he’d have to compete if it came out."
"Evidently, someone ’oo wished to give ’Ogwarts two bites at ze apple!"
"I quite agree, Madame Maxime,” said Karkaroff, bowing to her. “I shall be lodging complaints with the Ministry of Magic and the International Confederation of Wizards —"
"If anyone’s got reason to complain, it’s Potter,” growled Moody, “but . . . funny thing . . . I don’t hear him saying a word. . . ."
"Why should ’e complain?” burst out Fleur Delacour, stamping her foot. “’E ’as ze chance to compete, ’asn’t ’e? We ’ave all been ’oping to be chosen for weeks and weeks! Ze honor for our schools! A thousand Galleons in prize money — zis is a chance many would die for!"
"Maybe someone’s hoping Potter is going to die for it,"
"Moody, old man . . . what a thing to say!"
"We all know Professor Moody considers the morning wasted if he hasn’t discovered six plots to murder him before lunchtime,” said Karkaroff loudly. “Apparently he is now teaching his students to fear assassination too. An odd quality in a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Dumbledore, but no doubt you had your reasons."
"Imagining things, am I?” growled Moody. “Seeing things, eh? It was a skilled witch or wizard who put the boy’s name in that goblet. . . ."
"Ah, what evidence is zere of zat?"
"Because they hoodwinked a very powerful magical object!” said Moody. “It would have needed an exceptionally strong Confundus Charm to bamboozle that goblet into forgetting that only three schools compete in the tournament. . . . I’m guessing they submitted Potter’s name under a fourth school, to make sure he was the only one in his category. . . ."
"You seem to have given this a great deal of thought, Moody,” said Karkaroff coldly, “and a very ingenious theory it is — though of course, I heard you recently got it into your head that one of your birthday presents contained a cunningly disguised basilisk egg, and smashed it to pieces before realizing it was a carriage clock. So you’ll understand if we don’t take you entirely seriously. . . ."
"There are those who’ll turn innocent occasions to their advantage,” Moody retorted in a menacing voice. “It’s my job to think the way Dark wizards do, Karkaroff — as you ought to remember. . . ."
"Alastor!” said Dumbledore warningly. Harry wondered for a moment whom he was speaking to, but then realized “Mad-Eye"
"How this situation arose, we do not know,” said Dumbledore, speaking to everyone gathered in the room. “It seems to me, however, that we have no choice but to accept it. Both Cedric and Harry have been chosen to compete in the tournament. This, therefore, they will do. . . ."
"Ah, but Dumbly-dorr —"
"My dear Madame Maxime, if you have an alternative, I would be delighted to hear it."
"Well, shall we crack on, then?” he said, rubbing his hands together and smiling around the room. “Got to give our champions their instructions, haven’t we? Barty, want to do the honors?"
"Yes,” he said, “instructions. Yes . . . the first task . . ."
"The first task is designed to test your daring,"
"The champions are not permitted to ask for or accept help of any kind from their teachers to complete the tasks in the tournament. The champions will face the first challenge armed only with their wands. They will receive information about the second task when the first is over. Owing to the demanding and time-consuming nature of the tournament, the champions are exempted from end-of-year tests."
"I think that’s all, is it, Albus?"
"I think so,” said Dumbledore, who was looking at Mr. Crouch with mild concern. “Are you sure you wouldn’t like to stay at Hogwarts tonight, Barty?"
"No, Dumbledore, I must get back to the Ministry,” said Mr. Crouch. “It is a very busy, very difficult time at the moment. . . . I’ve left young Weatherby in charge. . . . Very enthusiastic . . . a little overenthusiastic, if truth be told. . . ."
"You’ll come and have a drink before you go, at least?"
"Come on, Barty, I’m staying!” said Bagman brightly. “It’s all happening at Hogwarts now, you know, much more exciting here than at the office!"
"I think not, Ludo,"
"Professor Karkaroff — Madame Maxime — a nightcap?"
"Harry, Cedric, I suggest you go up to bed,” said Dumbledore, smiling at both of them. “I am sure Gryffindor and Hufflepuff are waiting to celebrate with you, and it would be a shame to deprive them of this excellent excuse to make a great deal of mess and noise."
"So,” said Cedric, with a slight smile. “We’re playing against each other again!"
"I s’pose,"
"So . . . tell me . . .” said Cedric as they reached the entrance hall, which was now lit only by torches in the absence of the Goblet of Fire. “How did you get your name in?"
"I didn’t,” said Harry, staring up at him. “I didn’t put it in. I was telling the truth."
"Ah . . . okay,” said Cedric. Harry could tell Cedric didn’t believe him. “Well . . . see you, then."
"Well, well, well,” said the Fat Lady, “Violet’s just told me everything. Who’s just been chosen as school champion, then?"
"Balderdash,"
"It most certainly isn’t!"
"No, no, Vi, it’s the password,"
"You should’ve told us you’d entered!"
"How did you do it without getting a beard? Brilliant!"
"I didn’t,” Harry said. “I don’t know how —"
"Oh if it couldn’t be me, at least it’s a Gryffindor —"
"You’ll be able to pay back Diggory for that last Quidditch match, Harry!"
"We’ve got food, Harry, come and have some —"
"I’m not hungry, I had enough at the feast —"
"I didn’t,” he said, over and over again, “I don’t know how it happened."
"I’m tired!” he bellowed finally, after nearly half an hour. “No, seriously, George — I’m going to bed —"
"Where’ve you been?"
"Oh hello,"
"So,” he said, when Harry had finally removed the banner and thrown it into a corner. “Congratulations."
"What d’you mean, congratulations?"
"Well . . . no one else got across the Age Line,” said Ron. “Not even Fred and George. What did you use — the Invisibility Cloak?"
"The Invisibility Cloak wouldn’t have got me over that line,"
"Oh right,” said Ron. “I thought you might’ve told me if it was the Cloak . . . because it would’ve covered both of us, wouldn’t it? But you found another way, did you?"
"Listen,” said Harry, “I didn’t put my name in that goblet. Someone else must’ve done it."
"What would they do that for?"
"I dunno,” said Harry. He felt it would sound very melodramatic to say, “To kill me."
"It’s okay, you know, you can tell me the truth,” he said. “If you don’t want everyone else to know, fine, but I don’t know why you’re bothering to lie, you didn’t get into trouble for it, did you? That friend of the Fat Lady’s, that Violet, she’s already told us all Dumbledore’s letting you enter. A thousand Galleons prize money, eh? And you don’t have to do end-of-year tests either. . . ."
"I didn’t put my name in that goblet!"
"Yeah, okay,” said Ron, in exactly the same skeptical tone as Cedric. “Only you said this morning you’d have done it last night, and no one would’ve seen you. . . . I’m not stupid, you know."
"You’re doing a really good impression of it,"
"Yeah?” said Ron, and there was no trace of a grin, forced or otherwise, on his face now. “You want to get to bed, Harry. I expect you’ll need to be up early tomorrow for a photo-call or something."
"Hello,” she said, holding up a stack of toast, which she was carrying in a napkin. “I brought you this. . . . Want to go for a walk?"
"Good idea,"
"Well, of course I knew you hadn’t entered yourself,” she said when he’d finished telling her about the scene in the chamber off the Hall. “The look on your face when Dumbledore read out your name! But the question is, who did put it in? Because Moody’s right, Harry . . . I don’t think any student could have done it . . . they’d never be able to fool the goblet, or get over Dumbledore’s —"
"Have you seen Ron?"
"Erm . . . yes . . . he was at breakfast,"
"Does he still think I entered myself?"
"Well . . . no, I don’t think so . . . not really,"
"What’s that supposed to mean, ‘not really’?"
"Oh Harry, isn’t it obvious?” Hermione said despairingly. “He’s jealous!"
"Jealous?” Harry said incredulously. “Jealous of what? He wants to make a prat of himself in front of the whole school, does he?"
"Look,” said Hermione patiently, “it’s always you who gets all the attention, you know it is. I know it’s not your fault,” she added quickly, seeing Harry open his mouth furiously. “I know you don’t ask for it . . . but — well — you know, Ron’s got all those brothers to compete against at home, and you’re his best friend, and you’re really famous — he’s always shunted to one side whenever people see you, and he puts up with it, and he never mentions it, but I suppose this is just one time too many. . . ."
"Great,” said Harry bitterly. “Really great. Tell him from me I’ll swap any time he wants. Tell him from me he’s welcome to it. . . . People gawping at my forehead everywhere I go. . . ."
"I’m not telling him anything,” Hermione said shortly. “Tell him yourself. It’s the only way to sort this out."
"I’m not running around after him trying to make him grow up!” Harry said, so loudly that several owls in a nearby tree took flight in alarm. “Maybe he’ll believe I’m not enjoying myself once I’ve got my neck broken or —"
"That’s not funny,” said Hermione quietly. “That’s not funny at all.” She looked extremely anxious. “Harry, I’ve been thinking — you know what we’ve got to do, don’t you? Straight away, the moment we get back to the castle?"
"Yeah, give Ron a good kick up the —"
"Write to Sirius. You’ve got to tell him what’s happened. He asked you to keep him posted on everything that’s going on at Hogwarts. . . . It’s almost as if he expected something like this to happen. I brought some parchment and a quill out with me —"
"Come off it,” said Harry, looking around to check that they couldn’t be overheard, but the grounds were quite deserted. “He came back to the country just because my scar twinged. He’ll probably come bursting right into the castle if I tell him someone’s entered me in the Triwizard Tournament —"
"He’d want you to tell him,” said Hermione sternly. “He’s going to find out anyway —"
"How?"
"Harry, this isn’t going to be kept quiet,” said Hermione, very seriously. “This tournament’s famous, and you’re famous. I’ll be really surprised if there isn’t anything in the Daily Prophet about you competing. . . . You’re already in half the books about You-Know-Who, you know . . . and Sirius would rather hear it from you, I know he would."
"Okay, okay, I’ll write to him,"
"Whose owl am I going to use?” Harry said as they climbed the stairs. “He told me not to use Hedwig again."
"Ask Ron if you can borrow —"
"I’m not asking Ron for anything,"
"Well, borrow one of the school owls, then, anyone can use them,"
"Finished,"
"I can’t use you,” Harry told her, looking around for the school owls. “I’ve got to use one of these. . . ."
"First Ron, then you,” said Harry angrily. “This isn’t my fault."
"Ah, look, boys, it’s the champion,” he said to Crabbe and Goyle the moment he got within earshot of Harry. “Got your autograph books? Better get a signature now, because I doubt he’s going to be around much longer. . . . Half the Triwizard champions have died . . . how long d’you reckon you’re going to last, Potter? Ten minutes into the first task’s my bet."
"Take this thing for a walk?” he repeated in disgust, staring into one of the boxes. “And where exactly are we supposed to fix the leash? Around the sting, the blasting end, or the sucker?"
"Roun’ the middle,” said Hagrid, demonstrating. “Er — yeh might want ter put on yer dragon-hide gloves, jus’ as an extra precaution, like. Harry — you come here an’ help me with this big one. . . ."
"So — yer competin’, Harry. In the tournament. School champion."
"One of the champions,"
"No idea who put yeh in fer it, Harry?"
"You believe I didn’t do it, then?"
"’Course I do,” Hagrid grunted. “Yeh say it wasn’ you, an’ I believe yeh — an’ Dumbledore believes yer, an’ all."
"Wish I knew who did do it,"
"Look like they’re havin’ fun, don’ they?"
"Ah, I don’ know, Harry,” Hagrid sighed suddenly, looking back down at him with a worried expression on his face. “School champion . . . everythin’ seems ter happen ter you, doesn’ it?"
"It’s really not that difficult, Harry,” Hermione tried to reassure him as they left Flitwick’s class — she had been making objects zoom across the room to her all lesson, as though she were some sort of weird magnet for board dusters, wastepaper baskets, and lunascopes. “You just weren’t concentrating properly —"
"Wonder why that was,” said Harry darkly as Cedric Diggory walked past, surrounded by a large group of simpering girls, all of whom looked at Harry as though he were a particularly large Blast-Ended Skrewt. “Still — never mind, eh? Double Potions to look forward to this afternoon. . . ."
"ignore them, ignore them, ignore them"
"Like them, Potter?” said Malfoy loudly as Harry approached. “And this isn’t all they do — look!"
"Oh very funny,” Hermione said sarcastically to Pansy Parkinson and her gang of Slytherin girls, who were laughing harder than anyone, “really witty."
"Want one, Granger?” said Malfoy, holding out a badge to Hermione. “I’ve got loads. But don’t touch my hand, now. I’ve just washed it, you see; don’t want a Mudblood sliming it up."
"Harry!"
"Go on, then, Potter,” Malfoy said quietly, drawing out his own wand. “Moody’s not here to look after you now — do it, if you’ve got the guts —"
"Furnunculus!"
"Densaugeo!"
"Hermione!"
"And what is all this noise about?"
"Explain."
"Potter attacked me, sir —"
"We attacked each other at the same time!"
"— and he hit Goyle — look —"
"Hospital wing, Goyle,"
"Malfoy got Hermione!” Ron said. “Look!"
"I see no difference."
"Let’s see,” he said, in his silkiest voice. “Fifty points from Gryffindor and a detention each for Potter and Weasley. Now get inside, or it’ll be a week’s worth of detentions."
"Antidotes!” said Snape, looking around at them all, his cold black eyes glittering unpleasantly. “You should all have prepared your recipes now. I want you to brew them carefully, and then, we will be selecting someone on whom to test one. . . ."
"Yes?"
"Please, sir, I’m supposed to take Harry Potter upstairs."
"Potter has another hour of Potions to complete,” said Snape coldly. “He will come upstairs when this class is finished."
"Sir — sir, Mr. Bagman wants him,” he said nervously. “All the champions have got to go, I think they want to take photographs. . . ."
"Very well, very well,” Snape snapped. “Potter, leave your things here, I want you back down here later to test your antidote."
"Please, sir — he’s got to take his things with him,” squeaked Colin. “All the champions —"
"Very well!” said Snape. “Potter — take your bag and get out of my sight!"
"It’s amazing, isn’t it, Harry?” said Colin, starting to speak the moment Harry had closed the dungeon door behind him. “Isn’t it, though? You being champion?"
"Yeah, really amazing,” said Harry heavily as they set off toward the steps into the entrance hall. “What do they want photos for, Colin?"
"The Daily Prophet, I think!"
"Great,” said Harry dully. “Exactly what I need. More publicity."
"Good luck!"
"Ah, here he is! Champion number four! In you come, Harry, in you come . . . nothing to worry about, it’s just the wand weighing ceremony, the rest of the judges will be here in a moment —"
"Wand weighing?"
"We have to check that your wands are fully functional, no problems, you know, as they’re your most important tools in the tasks ahead,” said Bagman. “The expert’s upstairs now with Dumbledore. And then there’s going to be a little photo shoot. This is Rita Skeeter,” he added, gesturing toward the witch in magenta robes. “She’s doing a small piece on the tournament for the Daily Prophet. . . ."
"Maybe not that small, Ludo,"
"I wonder if I could have a little word with Harry before we start?” she said to Bagman, but still gazing fixedly at Harry. “The youngest champion, you know . . . to add a bit of color?"
"Certainly!” cried Bagman. “That is — if Harry has no objection?"
"Er —"
"Lovely,"
"We don’t want to be in there with all that noise,” she said. “Let’s see . . . ah, yes, this is nice and cozy."
"Come along, dear — that’s right — lovely,” said Rita Skeeter again, perching herself precariously upon an upturned bucket, pushing Harry down onto a cardboard box, and closing the door, throwing them into darkness. “Let’s see now . . ."
"You won’t mind, Harry, if I use a Quick-Quotes Quill? It leaves me free to talk to you normally. . . ."
"A what?"
"Testing . . . my name is Rita Skeeter, Daily Prophet reporter."
"Lovely,” said Rita Skeeter, yet again, and she ripped the top piece of parchment off, crumpled it up, and stuffed it into her handbag. Now she leaned toward Harry and said, “So, Harry . . . what made you decide to enter the Triwizard Tournament?"
"Er —"
"Ignore the quill, Harry,” said Rita Skeeter firmly. Reluctantly, Harry looked up at her instead. “Now — why did you decide to enter the tournament, Harry?"
"I didn’t,” said Harry. “I don’t know how my name got into the Goblet of Fire. I didn’t put it in there."
"Come now, Harry, there’s no need to be scared of getting into trouble. We all know you shouldn’t really have entered at all. But don’t worry about that. Our readers love a rebel."
"But I didn’t enter,” Harry repeated. “I don’t know who —"
"How do you feel about the tasks ahead?” said Rita Skeeter. “Excited? Nervous?"
"I haven’t really thought . . . yeah, nervous, I suppose,"
"Champions have died in the past, haven’t they?” said Rita Skeeter briskly. “Have you thought about that at all?"
"Well . . . they say it’s going to be a lot safer this year,"
"Of course, you’ve looked death in the face before, haven’t you?” said Rita Skeeter, watching him closely. “How would you say that’s affected you?"
"Er,"
"Do you think that the trauma in your past might have made you keen to prove yourself? To live up to your name? Do you think that perhaps you were tempted to enter the Triwizard Tournament because —"
"I didn’t enter,"
"Can you remember your parents at all?"
"No,"
"How do you think they’d feel if they knew you were competing in the Triwizard Tournament? Proud? Worried? Angry?"
"I have NOT got tears in my eyes!"
"Dumbledore!” cried Rita Skeeter, with every appearance of delight — but Harry noticed that her quill and the parchment had suddenly vanished from the box of Magical Mess Remover, and Rita’s clawed fingers were hastily snapping shut the clasp of her crocodile-skin bag. “How are you?” she said, standing up and holding out one of her large, mannish hands to Dumbledore. “I hope you saw my piece over the summer about the International Confederation of Wizards’ Conference?"
"Enchantingly nasty,” said Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. “I particularly enjoyed your description of me as an obsolete dingbat."
"I was just making the point that some of your ideas are a little old-fashioned, Dumbledore, and that many wizards in the street —"
"I will be delighted to hear the reasoning behind the rudeness, Rita,” said Dumbledore, with a courteous bow and a smile, “but I’m afraid we will have to discuss the matter later. The Weighing of the Wands is about to start, and it cannot take place if one of our champions is hidden in a broom cupboard."
"May I introduce Mr. Ollivander?” said Dumbledore, taking his place at the judges’ table and talking to the champions. “He will be checking your wands to ensure that they are in good condition before the tournament."
"Mademoiselle Delacour, could we have you first, please?"
"Hmmm . . ."
"Yes,” he said quietly, “nine and a half inches . . . inflexible . . . rosewood . . . and containing . . . dear me . . ."
"An ’air from ze ’ead of a veela,” said Fleur. “One of my grandmuzzer’s."
"Yes,” said Mr. Ollivander, “yes, I’ve never used veela hair myself, of course. I find it makes for rather temperamental wands . . . however, to each his own, and if this suits you . . ."
"Orchideous!"
"Very well, very well, it’s in fine working order,” said Mr. Ollivander, scooping up the flowers and handing them to Fleur with her wand. “Mr. Diggory, you next."
"Ah, now, this is one of mine, isn’t it?” said Mr. Ollivander, with much more enthusiasm, as Cedric handed over his wand. “Yes, I remember it well. Containing a single hair from the tail of a particularly fine male unicorn . . . must have been seventeen hands; nearly gored me with his horn after I plucked his tail. Twelve and a quarter inches . . . ash . . . pleasantly springy. It’s in fine condition. . . . You treat it regularly?"
"Polished it last night,"
"Mr. Krum, if you please."
"Hmm,” said Mr. Ollivander, “this is a Gregorovitch creation, unless I’m much mistaken? A fine wandmaker, though the styling is never quite what I . . . however . . ."
"Yes . . . hornbeam and dragon heartstring?” he shot at Krum, who nodded. “Rather thicker than one usually sees . . . quite rigid . . . ten and a quarter inches . . . Avis!"
"Good,” said Mr. Ollivander, handing Krum back his wand. “Which leaves . . . Mr. Potter."
"Aaaah, yes,” said Mr. Ollivander, his pale eyes suddenly gleaming. “Yes, yes, yes. How well I remember."
"Curious,” he had said, “curious,"
"Thank you all,” said Dumbledore, standing up at the judges’ table. “You may go back to your lessons now — or perhaps it would be quicker just to go down to dinner, as they are about to end —"
"Photos, Dumbledore, photos!” cried Bagman excitedly. “All the judges and champions, what do you think, Rita?"
"Er — yes, let’s do those first,” said Rita Skeeter, whose eyes were upon Harry again. “And then perhaps some individual shots."
"You’ve had an owl,"
"Oh — right,"
"And we’ve got to do our detentions tomorrow night, Snape’s dungeon,"
"er’s"
"Want a hanky, Potter, in case you start crying in Transfiguration?"
"Since when have you been one of the top students in the school, Potter? Or is this a school you and Longbottom have set up together?"
"Hey — Harry!"
"Yeah, that’s right!” Harry found himself shouting as he wheeled around in the corridor, having had just about enough. “I’ve just been crying my eyes out over my dead mum, and I’m just off to do a bit more. . . ."
"No — it was just — you dropped your quill."
"Oh — right — sorry,"
"Er . . . good luck on Tuesday,” she said. “I really hope you do well."
"Stunningly pretty? Her?” Pansy Parkinson had shrieked the first time she had come face-to-face with Hermione after Rita’s article had appeared. “What was she judging against — a chipmunk?"
"Ignore it,” Hermione said in a dignified voice, holding her head in the air and stalking past the sniggering Slytherin girls as though she couldn’t hear them. “Just ignore it, Harry."
"I didn’t start this,” Harry said stubbornly. “It’s his problem."
"You miss him!” Hermione said impatiently. “And I know he misses you —"
"Miss him?” said Harry. “I don’t miss him. . . . "
"He’s not even good-looking!” she muttered angrily, glaring at Krum’s sharp profile. “They only like him because he’s famous! They wouldn’t look twice at him if he couldn’t do that Wonky-Faint thing —"
"Wronski Feint,"
"What about Ron, though?” he said. “Don’t you want to go with him?"
"Oh . . . well . . .” Hermione went slightly pink. “I thought we might meet up with him in the Three Broomsticks. . . ."
"No,"
"Oh Harry, this is so stupid —"
"I’ll come, but I’m not meeting Ron, and I’m wearing my Invisibility Cloak."
"Oh all right then . . .” Hermione snapped, “but I hate talking to you in that Cloak, I never know if I’m looking at you or not."
"People keep looking at me now,” said Hermione grumpily as they came out of Honeydukes Sweetshop later, eating large cream-filled chocolates. “They think I’m talking to myself."
"Don’t move your lips so much then."
"Come on, please just take off your Cloak for a bit, no one’s going to bother you here."
"Oh yeah?” said Harry. “Look behind you."
"She’s staying in the village. I bet she’s coming to watch the first task."
"She’s gone,” said Hermione, looking right through Harry toward the end of the street. “Why don’t we go and have a butterbeer in the Three Broomsticks, it’s a bit cold, isn’t it? You don’t have to talk to Ron!"
"I look like such an idiot, sitting here on my own,” she muttered. “Lucky I brought something to do."
"You know, maybe I should try and get some of the villagers involved in S.P.E.W.,"
"Yeah, right,” said Harry. He took a swig of butterbeer under his Cloak. “Hermione, when are you going to give up on this spew stuff?"
"When house-elves have decent wages and working conditions!” she hissed back. “You know, I’m starting to think it’s time for more direct action. I wonder how you get into the school kitchens?"
"No idea, ask Fred and George,"
"Look, it’s Hagrid!"
"All right, Hermione?"
"Hello,"
"Nice Cloak, Potter."
"Can your eye — I mean, can you — ?"
"Yeah, it can see through Invisibility Cloaks,” Moody said quietly. “And it’s come in useful at times, I can tell you."
"Harry, meet me tonight at midnight at me cabin. Wear that Cloak."
"Nice ter see yeh, Hermione,"
"Why does Hagrid want me to meet him at midnight?"
"Does he?” said Hermione, looking startled. “I wonder what he’s up to? I don’t know whether you should go, Harry. . . .” She looked nervously around and hissed, “It might make you late for Sirius."
"Thanks!"
"You there, Harry?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, slipping inside the cabin and pulling the Cloak down off his head. “What’s up?"
"Got summat ter show yeh,"
"What’re you showing me?"
"Come with me, keep quiet, an’ keep yerself covered with that Cloak,” said Hagrid. “We won’ take Fang, he won’ like it. . . ."
"Listen, Hagrid, I can’t stay long. . . . I’ve got to be back up at the castle by one o’clock —"
"Hagrid, what — ?"
"Shhh!"
"Ah, ’Agrid . . . it is time?"
"Bong-sewer,"
"Wair is it you are taking me, ’Agrid?"
"Yeh’ll enjoy this,” said Hagrid gruffly, “worth seein’, trust me. On’y — don’ go tellin’ anyone I showed yeh, right? Yeh’re not s’posed ter know."
"Of course not,"
"Keep back there, Hagrid!” yelled a wizard near the fence, straining on the chain he was holding. “They can shoot fire at a range of twenty feet, you know! I’ve seen this Horntail do forty!"
"Is’n’ it beautiful?"
"It’s no good!” yelled another wizard. “Stunning Spells, on the count of three!"
"Stupefy!"
"Wan’ a closer look?"
"All right, Hagrid?” he panted, coming over to talk. “They should be okay now — we put them out with a Sleeping Draught on the way here, thought it might be better for them to wake up in the dark and the quiet — but, like you saw, they weren’t happy, not happy at all —"
"What breeds you got here, Charlie?"
"This is a Hungarian Horntail,” said Charlie. “There’s a Common Welsh Green over there, the smaller one — a Swedish Short-Snout, that blue-gray — and a Chinese Fireball, that’s the red."
"I didn’t know you were bringing her, Hagrid,” Charlie said, frowning. “The champions aren’t supposed to know what’s coming — she’s bound to tell her student, isn’t she?"
"Jus’ thought she’d like ter see ’em,"
"Really romantic date, Hagrid,"
"Four . . .” said Hagrid, “so it’s one fer each o’ the champions, is it? What’ve they gotta do — fight ’em?"
"Just get past them, I think,” said Charlie. “We’ll be on hand if it gets nasty, Extinguishing Spells at the ready. They wanted nesting mothers, I don’t know why . . . but I tell you this, I don’t envy the one who gets the Horntail. Vicious thing. Its back end’s as dangerous as its front, look."
"I’ve got them counted, Hagrid,” said Charlie sternly. Then he said, “How’s Harry?"
"Fine,"
"Just hope he’s still fine after he’s faced this lot,” said Charlie grimly, looking out over the dragons’ enclosure. “I didn’t dare tell Mum what he’s got to do for the first task; she’s already having kittens about him. . . .” Charlie imitated his mother’s anxious voice. “‘How could they let him enter that tournament, he’s much too young! I thought they were all safe, I thought there was going to be an age limit!’ She was in floods after that Daily Prophet article about him. ‘He still cries about his parents! Oh bless him, I never knew!’"
"Ouch! Who’s there?"
"Who’s there?"
"Balderdash!"
"If you say so,"
"Sirius — how’re you doing?"
"Never mind me, how are you?"
"I’m —” For a second, Harry tried to say “fine"
". . . and now Hagrid’s just shown me what’s coming in the first task, and it’s dragons, Sirius, and I’m a goner,"
"Dragons we can deal with, Harry, but we’ll get to that in a minute — I haven’t got long here . . . I’ve broken into a Wizarding house to use the fire, but they could be back at any time. There are things I need to warn you about."
"What?"
"Karkaroff,” said Sirius. “Harry, he was a Death Eater. You know what Death Eaters are, don’t you?"
"Yes — he — what?"
"He was caught, he was in Azkaban with me, but he got released. I’d bet everything that’s why Dumbledore wanted an Auror at Hogwarts this year — to keep an eye on him. Moody caught Karkaroff. Put him into Azkaban in the first place."
"Karkaroff got released?” Harry said slowly — his brain seemed to be struggling to absorb yet another piece of shocking information. “Why did they release him?"
"He did a deal with the Ministry of Magic,” said Sirius bitterly. “He said he’d seen the error of his ways, and then he named names . . . he put a load of other people into Azkaban in his place. . . . He’s not very popular in there, I can tell you. And since he got out, from what I can tell, he’s been teaching the Dark Arts to every student who passes through that school of his. So watch out for the Durmstrang champion as well."
"Okay,” said Harry slowly. “But . . . are you saying Karkaroff put my name in the goblet? Because if he did, he’s a really good actor. He seemed furious about it. He wanted to stop me from competing."
"We know he’s a good actor,” said Sirius, “because he convinced the Ministry of Magic to set him free, didn’t he? Now, I’ve been keeping an eye on the Daily Prophet, Harry —"
"— you and the rest of the world,"
"— and reading between the lines of that Skeeter woman’s article last month, Moody was attacked the night before he started at Hogwarts. Yes, I know she says it was another false alarm,” Sirius said hastily, seeing Harry about to speak, “but I don’t think so, somehow. I think someone tried to stop him from getting to Hogwarts. I think someone knew their job would be a lot more difficult with him around. And no one’s going to look into it too closely; Mad-Eye’s heard intruders a bit too often. But that doesn’t mean he can’t still spot the real thing. Moody was the best Auror the Ministry ever had."
"So . . . what are you saying?” said Harry slowly. “Karkaroff’s trying to kill me? But — why?"
"I’ve been hearing some very strange things,” he said slowly. “The Death Eaters seem to be a bit more active than usual lately. They showed themselves at the Quidditch World Cup, didn’t they? Someone set off the Dark Mark . . . and then — did you hear about that Ministry of Magic witch who’s gone missing?"
"Bertha Jorkins?"
"Exactly . . . she disappeared in Albania, and that’s definitely where Voldemort was rumored to be last . . . and she would have known the Triwizard Tournament was coming up, wouldn’t she?"
"Yeah, but . . . it’s not very likely she’d have walked straight into Voldemort, is it?"
"Listen, I knew Bertha Jorkins,” said Sirius grimly. “She was at Hogwarts when I was, a few years above your dad and me. And she was an idiot. Very nosy, but no brains, none at all. It’s not a good combination, Harry. I’d say she’d be very easy to lure into a trap."
"So . . . so Voldemort could have found out about the tournament?” said Harry. “Is that what you mean? You think Karkaroff might be here on his orders?"
"I don’t know,” said Sirius slowly, “I just don’t know . . . Karkaroff doesn’t strike me as the type who’d go back to Voldemort unless he knew Voldemort was powerful enough to protect him. But whoever put your name in that goblet did it for a reason, and I can’t help thinking the tournament would be a very good way to attack you and make it look like an accident."
"Looks like a really good plan from where I’m standing,” said Harry, grinning bleakly. “They’ll just have to stand back and let the dragons do their stuff."
"Right — these dragons,” said Sirius, speaking very quickly now. “There’s a way, Harry. Don’t be tempted to try a Stunning Spell — dragons are strong and too powerfully magical to be knocked out by a single Stunner, you need about half a dozen wizards at a time to overcome a dragon —"
"Yeah, I know, I just saw,"
"But you can do it alone,” said Sirius. “There is a way, and a simple spell’s all you need. Just —"
"Go!” he hissed at Sirius. “Go! There’s someone coming!"
"Who were you talking to?"
"What’s that got to do with you?” Harry snarled. “What are you doing down here at this time of night?"
"I just wondered where you —” Ron broke off, shrugging. “Nothing. I’m going back to bed."
"Just thought you’d come nosing around, did you?"
"Sorry about that,” said Ron, his face reddening with anger. “Should’ve realized you didn’t want to be disturbed. I’ll let you get on with practicing for your next interview in peace."
"There you go,” Harry said. “Something for you to wear on Tuesday. You might even have a scar now, if you’re lucky. . . . That’s what you want, isn’t it?"
"Let’s just try and keep you alive until Tuesday evening,” she said desperately, “and then we can worry about Karkaroff."
"‘Talon-clipping by charms . . . treating scale-rot . . .’ This is no good, this is for nutters like Hagrid who want to keep them healthy. . . ."
"‘Dragons are extremely difficult to slay, owing to the ancient magic that imbues their thick hides, which none but the most powerful spells can penetrate . . .’ But Sirius said a simple one would do it. . . ."
"Let’s try some simple spellbooks, then,"
"Well, there are Switching Spells . . . but what’s the point of Switching it? Unless you swapped its fangs for wine-gums or something that would make it less dangerous. . . . The trouble is, like that book said, not much is going to get through a dragon’s hide. . . . I’d say Transfigure it, but something that big, you really haven’t got a hope, I doubt even Professor McGonagall . . . unless you’re supposed to put the spell on yourself? Maybe to give yourself extra powers? But they’re not simple spells, I mean, we haven’t done any of those in class, I only know about them because I’ve been doing O.W.L. practice papers. . . ."
"Hermione,” Harry said, through gritted teeth, “will you shut up for a bit, please? I’m trying to concentrate."
"Oh no, he’s back again, why can’t he read on his stupid ship?” said Hermione irritably as Viktor Krum slouched in, cast a surly look over at the pair of them, and settled himself in a distant corner with a pile of books. “Come on, Harry, we’ll go back to the common room . . . his fan club’ll be here in a moment, twittering away. . . ."
"Hermione, I’ll see you in the greenhouses,” Harry said, coming to his decision as he watched Cedric leaving the Hall. “Go on, I’ll catch you up."
"Harry, you’ll be late, the bell’s about to ring —"
"I’ll catch you up, okay?"
"Diffindo!"
"Don’t bother,” said Cedric in an exasperated voice as his friends bent down to help him. “Tell Flitwick I’m coming, go on. . . ."
"Hi,” said Cedric, picking up a copy of A Guide to Advanced Transfiguration that was now splattered with ink. “My bag just split . . . brand-new and all . . ."
"Cedric,” said Harry, “the first task is dragons."
"What?"
"Dragons,” said Harry, speaking quickly, in case Professor Flitwick came out to see where Cedric had got to. “They’ve got four, one for each of us, and we’ve got to get past them."
"Are you sure?"
"Dead sure,” said Harry. “I’ve seen them."
"But how did you find out? We’re not supposed to know. . . ."
"Never mind,” said Harry quickly — he knew Hagrid would be in trouble if he told the truth. “But I’m not the only one who knows. Fleur and Krum will know by now — Maxime and Karkaroff both saw the dragons too."
"Why are you telling me?"
"It’s just . . . fair, isn’t it?” he said to Cedric. “We all know now . . . we’re on an even footing, aren’t we?"
"Come with me, Potter,” he growled. “Diggory, off you go."
"Er — Professor, I’m supposed to be in Herbology —"
"Never mind that, Potter. In my office, please. . . ."
"That was a very decent thing you just did, Potter,"
"Sit down,"
"Like my Dark Detectors, do you?"
"What’s that?"
"Secrecy Sensor. Vibrates when it detects concealment and lies . . . no use here, of course, too much interference — students in every direction lying about why they haven’t done their homework. Been humming ever since I got here. I had to disable my Sneakoscope because it wouldn’t stop whistling. It’s extra-sensitive, picks up stuff about a mile around. Of course, it could be picking up more than kid stuff,"
"And what’s the mirror for?"
"Oh that’s my Foe-Glass. See them out there, skulking around? I’m not really in trouble until I see the whites of their eyes. That’s when I open my trunk."
"So . . . found out about the dragons, have you?"
"It’s all right,” said Moody, sitting down and stretching out his wooden leg with a groan. “Cheating’s a traditional part of the Triwizard Tournament and always has been."
"I didn’t cheat,” said Harry sharply. “It was — a sort of accident that I found out."
"I wasn’t accusing you, laddie. I’ve been telling Dumbledore from the start, he can be as high-minded as he likes, but you can bet old Karkaroff and Maxime won’t be. They’ll have told their champions everything they can. They want to win. They want to beat Dumbledore. They’d like to prove he’s only human."
"So . . . got any ideas how you’re going to get past your dragon yet?"
"No,"
"Well, I’m not going to tell you,” said Moody gruffly. “I don’t show favoritism, me. I’m just going to give you some good, general advice. And the first bit is — play to your strengths."
"I haven’t got any,"
"Excuse me,” growled Moody, “you’ve got strengths if I say you’ve got them. Think now. What are you best at?"
"Quidditch,” he said dully, “and a fat lot of help —"
"That’s right,” said Moody, staring at him very hard, his magical eye barely moving at all. “You’re a damn good flier from what I’ve heard."
"Yeah, but . . .” Harry stared at him. “I’m not allowed a broom, I’ve only got my wand —"
"My second piece of general advice,” said Moody loudly, interrupting him, “is to use a nice, simple spell that will enable you to get what you need."
"Come on, boy . . .” whispered Moody. “Put them together . . . it’s not that difficult. . . ."
"Hermione,” Harry whispered, when he had sped into the greenhouse three minutes later, uttering a hurried apology to Professor Sprout as he passed her. “Hermione — I need you to help me."
"What d’you think I’ve been trying to do, Harry?"
"Hermione, I need to learn how to do a Summoning Charm properly by tomorrow afternoon."
"Concentrate, Harry, concentrate. . . . "
"What d’you think I’m trying to do?” said Harry angrily. “A great big dragon keeps popping up in my head for some reason. . . . Okay, try again. . . ."
"Well, that’s good,” said Harry loudly, his temper getting the better of him, “just as long as it’s not drawn-out. I don’t want to suffer."
"That’s better, Harry, that’s loads better,"
"Well, now we know what to do next time I can’t manage a spell,” Harry said, throwing a rune dictionary back to Hermione, so he could try again, “threaten me with a dragon. Right . . .” He raised his wand once more. “Accio Dictionary!"
"Harry, I really think you’ve got it!"
"Just as long as it works tomorrow,” Harry said. “The Firebolt’s going to be much farther away than the stuff in here, it’s going to be in the castle, and I’m going to be out there on the grounds. . . ."
"That doesn’t matter,” said Hermione firmly. “Just as long as you’re concentrating really, really hard on it, it’ll come. Harry, we’d better get some sleep . . . you’re going to need it."
"We’ll have a box of tissues ready, Potter"
"Potter, the champions have to come down onto the grounds now. . . . You have to get ready for your first task."
"Okay,"
"Good luck, Harry,” Hermione whispered. “You’ll be fine!"
"Yeah,"
"Now, don’t panic,” she said, “just keep a cool head. . . . We’ve got wizards standing by to control the situation if it gets out of hand. . . . The main thing is just to do your best, and nobody will think any the worse of you. . . . Are you all right?"
"Yes,” Harry heard himself say. “Yes, I’m fine."
"You’re to go in here with the other champions,” said Professor McGonagall, in a rather shaky sort of voice, “and wait for your turn, Potter. Mr. Bagman is in there . . . he’ll be telling you the — the procedure. . . . Good luck."
"Thanks,"
"Harry! Good-o!” said Bagman happily, looking around at him. “Come in, come in, make yourself at home!"
"Well, now we’re all here — time to fill you in!” said Bagman brightly. “When the audience has assembled, I’m going to be offering each of you this bag” — he held up a small sack of purple silk and shook it at them — “from which you will each select a small model of the thing you are about to face! There are different — er — varieties, you see. And I have to tell you something else too . . . ah, yes . . . your task is to collect the golden egg!"
"Ladies first,"
"Well, there you are!” said Bagman. “You have each pulled out the dragon you will face, and the numbers refer to the order in which you are to take on the dragons, do you see? Now, I’m going to have to leave you in a moment, because I’m commentating. Mr. Diggory, you’re first, just go out into the enclosure when you hear a whistle, all right? Now . . . Harry . . . could I have a quick word? Outside?"
"Er . . . yes,"
"Feeling all right, Harry? Anything I can get you?"
"What?” said Harry. “I — no, nothing."
"Got a plan?” said Bagman, lowering his voice conspiratorially. “Because I don’t mind sharing a few pointers, if you’d like them, you know. I mean,” Bagman continued, lowering his voice still further, “you’re the underdog here, Harry. . . . Anything I can do to help . . ."
"No,” said Harry so quickly he knew he had sounded rude, “no — I — I know what I’m going to do, thanks."
"Nobody would know, Harry,"
"No, I’m fine,” said Harry, wondering why he kept telling people this, and wondering whether he had ever been less fine. “I’ve got a plan worked out, I —"
"Good lord, I’ve got to run!"
"Oooh, narrow miss there, very narrow” . . . “He’s taking risks, this one!” . . . “Clever move — pity it didn’t work!"
"Very good indeed!” Bagman was shouting. “And now the marks from the judges!"
"One down, three to go!” Bagman yelled as the whistle blew again. “Miss Delacour, if you please!"
"Oh I’m not sure that was wise!” they could hear Bagman shouting gleefully. “Oh . . . nearly! Careful now . . . good lord, I thought she’d had it then!"
"And here comes Mr. Krum!"
"Very daring!” Bagman was yelling, and Harry heard the Chinese Fireball emit a horrible, roaring shriek, while the crowd drew its collective breath. “That’s some nerve he’s showing — and — yes, he’s got the egg!"
"Accio Firebolt!"
"Okay,” Harry told himself, “diversionary tactics . . . let’s go. . . ."
"Great Scott, he can fly!” yelled Bagman as the crowd shrieked and gasped. “Are you watching this, Mr. Krum?"
"Come on,” Harry hissed, swerving tantalizingly above her, “come on, come and get me . . . up you get now . . ."
"Look at that!” Bagman was yelling. “Will you look at that! Our youngest champion is quickest to get his egg! Well, this is going to shorten the odds on Mr. Potter!"
"That was excellent, Potter!” cried Professor McGonagall as he got off the Firebolt — which from her was extravagant praise. He noticed that her hand shook as she pointed at his shoulder. “You’ll need to see Madam Pomfrey before the judges give out your score. . . . Over there, she’s had to mop up Diggory already. . . ."
"Yeh did it, Harry!” said Hagrid hoarsely. “Yeh did it! An’ agains’ the Horntail an’ all, an’ yeh know Charlie said that was the wors’ —"
"Thanks, Hagrid,"
"Nice and easy does the trick, Potter,"
"Right then, Potter, the first aid tent, please . . ."
"Dragons!” she said, in a disgusted tone, pulling Harry inside. The tent was divided into cubicles; he could make out Cedric’s shadow through the canvas, but Cedric didn’t seem to be badly injured; he was sitting up, at least. Madam Pomfrey examined Harry’s shoulder, talking furiously all the while. “Last year dementors, this year dragons, what are they going to bring into this school next? You’re very lucky . . . this is quite shallow . . . it’ll need cleaning before I heal it up, though. . . ."
"Now, just sit quietly for a minute — sit! And then you can go and get your score."
"How does it feel now, Diggory?"
"Harry, you were brilliant!” Hermione said squeakily. There were fingernail marks on her face where she had been clutching it in fear. “You were amazing! You really were!"
"Harry,” he said, very seriously, “whoever put your name in that goblet — I — I reckon they’re trying to do you in!"
"Caught on, have you?” said Harry coldly. “Took you long enough."
"It’s okay,” he said, before Ron could get the words out. “Forget it."
"No,” said Ron, “I shouldn’t’ve —"
"Forget it,"
"There’s nothing to cry about!"
"You two are so stupid!"
"Barking mad,” said Ron, shaking his head. “Harry, c’mon, they’ll be putting up your scores. . . ."
"You were the best, you know, no competition. Cedric did this weird thing where he Transfigured a rock on the ground . . . turned it into a dog . . . he was trying to make the dragon go for the dog instead of him. Well, it was a pretty cool bit of Transfiguration, and it sort of worked, because he did get the egg, but he got burned as well — the dragon changed its mind halfway through and decided it would rather have him than the Labrador; he only just got away. And that Fleur girl tried this sort of charm, I think she was trying to put it into a trance — well, that kind of worked too, it went all sleepy, but then it snored, and this great jet of flame shot out, and her skirt caught fire — she put it out with a bit of water out of her wand. And Krum — you won’t believe this, but he didn’t even think of flying! He was probably the best after you, though. Hit it with some sort of spell right in the eye. Only thing is, it went trampling around in agony and squashed half the real eggs — they took marks off for that, he wasn’t supposed to do any damage to them."
"It’s marks out of ten from each one,"
"Not bad!” said Ron as the crowd applauded. “I suppose she took marks off for your shoulder. . . ."
"Looking good!"
"Ten?” said Harry in disbelief. “But . . . I got hurt. . . . What’s he playing at?"
"Harry, don’t complain!"
"What?” Ron bellowed furiously. “Four? You lousy, biased scumbag, you gave Krum ten!"
"You’re tied in first place, Harry! You and Krum!” said Charlie Weasley, hurrying to meet them as they set off back toward the school. “Listen, I’ve got to run, I’ve got to go and send Mum an owl, I swore I’d tell her what happened — but that was unbelievable! Oh yeah — and they told me to tell you you’ve got to hang around for a few more minutes. . . . Bagman wants a word, back in the champions’ tent."
"Good one, Harry."
"And you,"
"Well done, all of you!” said Ludo Bagman, bouncing into the tent and looking as pleased as though he personally had just got past a dragon. “Now, just a quick few words. You’ve got a nice long break before the second task, which will take place at half past nine on the morning of February the twenty-fourth — but we’re giving you something to think about in the meantime! If you look down at those golden eggs you’re all holding, you will see that they open . . . see the hinges there? You need to solve the clue inside the egg — because it will tell you what the second task is, and enable you to prepare for it! All clear? Sure? Well, off you go, then!"
"Congratulations, Harry!” she said, beaming at him. “I wonder if you could give me a quick word? How you felt facing that dragon? How you feel now, about the fairness of the scoring?"
"Yeah, you can have a word,” said Harry savagely. “Good-bye."
"Fits, doesn’t it?” he said. “Remember what Malfoy said on the train, about his dad being friends with Karkaroff? Now we know where they knew each other. They were probably running around in masks together at the World Cup. . . . I’ll tell you one thing, though, Harry, if it was Karkaroff who put your name in the goblet, he’s going to be feeling really stupid now, isn’t he? Didn’t work, did it? You only got a scratch! Come here — I’ll do it —"
"There’s no way any of the other tasks are going to be that dangerous, how could they be?” Ron went on as he carried Pigwidgeon to the window. “You know what? I reckon you could win this tournament, Harry, I’m serious."
"Harry’s got a long way to go before he finishes this tournament,” she said seriously. “If that was the first task, I hate to think what’s coming next."
"Right little ray of sunshine, aren’t you?” said Ron. “You and Professor Trelawney should get together sometime."
"Well, we’d better get downstairs for your surprise party, Harry — Fred and George should have nicked enough food from the kitchens by now."
"Blimey, this is heavy,” said Lee Jordan, picking up the golden egg, which Harry had left on a table, and weighing it in his hands. “Open it, Harry, go on! Let’s just see what’s inside it!"
"He’s supposed to work out the clue on his own,” Hermione said swiftly. “It’s in the tournament rules. . . ."
"I was supposed to work out how to get past the dragon on my own too,"
"Yeah, go on, Harry, open it!"
"Shut it!"
"What was that?” said Seamus Finnigan, staring at the egg as Harry slammed it shut again. “Sounded like a banshee. . . . Maybe you’ve got to get past one of those next, Harry!"
"It was someone being tortured!” said Neville, who had gone very white and spilled sausage rolls all over the floor. “You’re going to have to fight the Cruciatus Curse!"
"Don’t be a prat, Neville, that’s illegal,” said George. “They wouldn’t use the Cruciatus Curse on the champions. I thought it sounded a bit like Percy singing . . . maybe you’ve got to attack him while he’s in the shower, Harry."
"Want a jam tart, Hermione?"
"It’s all right,” he said. “I haven’t done anything to them. It’s the custard creams you’ve got to watch —"
"Just my little joke, Neville. . . ."
"Did you get all this from the kitchens, Fred?"
"Yep,” said Fred, grinning at her. He put on a high-pitched squeak and imitated a house-elf. “‘Anything we can get you, sir, anything at all!’ They’re dead helpful . . . get me a roast ox if I said I was peckish."
"How do you get in there?"
"Easy,” said Fred, “concealed door behind a painting of a bowl of fruit. Just tickle the pear, and it giggles and —” He stopped and looked suspiciously at her. “Why?"
"Nothing,"
"Going to try and lead the house-elves out on strike now, are you?” said George. “Going to give up all the leaflet stuff and try and stir them up into rebellion?"
"Don’t you go upsetting them and telling them they’ve got to take clothes and salaries!” said Fred warningly. “You’ll put them off their cooking!"
"Oh — sorry, Neville!” Fred shouted over all the laughter. “I forgot — it was the custard creams we hexed —"
"Canary Creams!” Fred shouted to the excitable crowd. “George and I invented them — seven Sickles each, a bargain!"
"I’m not sure whether they hibernate or not,” Hagrid told the shivering class in the windy pumpkin patch next lesson. “Thought we’d jus’ try an’ see if they fancied a kip . . . we’ll jus’ settle ’em down in these boxes. . . ."
"We’ll jus’ lead ’em in here,” Hagrid said, “an’ put the lids on, and we’ll see what happens."
"Don’ panic, now, don’ panic!"
"Don’ frighten him, now!” Hagrid shouted as Ron and Harry used their wands to shoot jets of fiery sparks at the skrewt, which was advancing menacingly on them, its sting arched, quivering, over its back. “Jus’ try an’ slip the rope ’round his sting, so he won’ hurt any o’ the others!"
"Yeah, we wouldn’t want that!"
"Well, well, well . . . this does look like fun."
"Who’re you?"
"Rita Skeeter, Daily Prophet reporter,"
"Thought Dumbledore said you weren’ allowed inside the school anymore,"
"What are these fascinating creatures called?"
"Blast-Ended Skrewts,"
"Really?” said Rita, apparently full of lively interest. “I’ve never heard of them before . . . where do they come from?"
"They’re very interesting, aren’t they? Aren’t they, Harry?"
"What? Oh yeah . . . ouch . . . interesting,"
"Ah, you’re here, Harry!” said Rita Skeeter as she looked around. “So you like Care of Magical Creatures, do you? One of your favorite lessons?"
"Yes,"
"Lovely,” said Rita. “Really lovely. Been teaching long?"
"This is on’y me second year,"
"Lovely . . . I don’t suppose you’d like to give an interview, would you? Share some of your experience of magical creatures? The Prophet does a zoological column every Wednesday, as I’m sure you know. We could feature these — er — Bang-Ended Scoots."
"Blast-Ended Skrewts,” Hagrid said eagerly. “Er — yeah, why not?"
"Well, good-bye, Harry!” Rita Skeeter called merrily to him as he set off with Ron and Hermione. “Until Friday night, then, Hagrid!"
"She’ll twist everything he says,"
"Just as long as he didn’t import those skrewts illegally or anything,"
"Hagrid’s been in loads of trouble before, and Dumbledore’s never sacked him,” said Ron consolingly. “Worst that can happen is Hagrid’ll have to get rid of the skrewts. Sorry . . . did I say worst? I meant best."
"I would think,” she said, in a mystical whisper that did not conceal her obvious annoyance, “that some of us” — she stared very meaningfully at Harry — “might be a little less frivolous had they seen what I have seen during my crystal gazing last night. As I sat here, absorbed in my needlework, the urge to consult the orb overpowered me. I arose, I settled myself before it, and I gazed into its crystalline depths . . . and what do you think I saw gazing back at me?"
"An ugly old bat in outsize specs?"
"Death, my dears."
"Yes,” said Professor Trelawney, nodding impressively, “it comes, ever closer, it circles overhead like a vulture, ever lower . . . ever lower over the castle. . . ."
"It’d be a bit more impressive if she hadn’t done it about eighty times before,” Harry said as they finally regained the fresh air of the staircase beneath Professor Trelawney’s room. “But if I’d dropped dead every time she’s told me I’m going to, I’d be a medical miracle."
"You’d be a sort of extra-concentrated ghost,” said Ron, chortling, as they passed the Bloody Baron going in the opposite direction, his wide eyes staring sinisterly. “At least we didn’t get homework. I hope Hermione got loads off Professor Vector, I love not working when she is. . . ."
"Wonder where she’s got to?"
"Dunno . . . balderdash."
"Harry!” she panted, skidding to a halt beside him (the Fat Lady stared down at her, eyebrows raised). “Harry, you’ve got to come — you’ve got to come, the most amazing thing’s happened — please —"
"What’s the matter?"
"I’ll show you when we get there — oh come on, quick —"
"Okay,"
"Oh don’t mind me!” the Fat Lady called irritably after them. “Don’t apologize for bothering me! I’ll just hang here, wide open, until you get back, shall I?"
"Yeah, thanks!"
"Hermione, where are we going?"
"You’ll see, you’ll see in a minute!"
"Oh hang on . . .” said Harry slowly, halfway down the corridor. “Wait a minute, Hermione. . . ."
"What?"
"I know what this is about,"
"Hermione!” said Ron, cottoning on. “You’re trying to rope us into that spew stuff again!"
"No, no, I’m not!” she said hastily. “And it’s not spew, Ron —"
"Changed the name, have you?” said Ron, frowning at her. “What are we now, then, the House-Elf Liberation Front? I’m not barging into that kitchen and trying to make them stop work, I’m not doing it —"
"I’m not asking you to!” Hermione said impatiently. “I came down here just now, to talk to them all, and I found — oh come on, Harry, I want to show you!"
"Harry Potter, sir! Harry Potter!"
"D-Dobby?"
"It is Dobby, sir, it is!” squealed the voice from somewhere around his navel. “Dobby has been hoping and hoping to see Harry Potter, sir, and Harry Potter has come to see him, sir!"
"Dobby, what’re you doing here?"
"Dobby has come to work at Hogwarts, sir!” Dobby squealed excitedly. “Professor Dumbledore gave Dobby and Winky jobs, sir!"
"Winky?” said Harry. “She’s here too?"
"Yes, sir, yes!"
"Winky, sir!"
"Hello, Winky,"
"Oh dear,” said Hermione. She and Ron had followed Harry and Dobby to the end of the kitchen. “Winky, don’t cry, please don’t . . ."
"Would Harry Potter like a cup of tea?"
"Er — yeah, okay,"
"Good service!"
"How long have you been here, Dobby?"
"Only a week, Harry Potter, sir!” said Dobby happily. “Dobby came to see Professor Dumbledore, sir. You see, sir, it is very difficult for a house-elf who has been dismissed to get a new position, sir, very difficult indeed —"
"Dobby has traveled the country for two whole years, sir, trying to find work!” Dobby squeaked. “But Dobby hasn’t found work, sir, because Dobby wants paying now!"
"Good for you, Dobby!"
"Thank you, miss!” said Dobby, grinning toothily at her. “But most wizards doesn’t want a house-elf who wants paying, miss. ‘That’s not the point of a house-elf,’ they says, and they slammed the door in Dobby’s face! Dobby likes work, but he wants to wear clothes and he wants to be paid, Harry Potter. . . . Dobby likes being free!"
"And then, Harry Potter, Dobby goes to visit Winky, and finds out Winky has been freed too, sir!"
"And then Dobby had the idea, Harry Potter, sir! ‘Why doesn’t Dobby and Winky find work together?’ Dobby says. ‘Where is there enough work for two house-elves?’ says Winky. And Dobby thinks, and it comes to him, sir! Hogwarts! So Dobby and Winky came to see Professor Dumbledore, sir, and Professor Dumbledore took us on!"
"And Professor Dumbledore says he will pay Dobby, sir, if Dobby wants paying! And so Dobby is a free elf, sir, and Dobby gets a Galleon a week and one day off a month!"
"That’s not very much!"
"Professor Dumbledore offered Dobby ten Galleons a week, and weekends off,” said Dobby, suddenly giving a little shiver, as though the prospect of so much leisure and riches were frightening, “but Dobby beat him down, miss. . . . Dobby likes freedom, miss, but he isn’t wanting too much, miss, he likes work better."
"And how much is Professor Dumbledore paying you, Winky?"
"Winky is a disgraced elf, but Winky is not yet getting paid!” she squeaked. “Winky is not sunk so low as that! Winky is properly ashamed of being freed!"
"Ashamed?” said Hermione blankly. “But — Winky, come on! It’s Mr. Crouch who should be ashamed, not you! You didn’t do anything wrong, he was really horrible to you —"
"You is not insulting my master, miss! You is not insulting Mr. Crouch! Mr. Crouch is a good wizard, miss! Mr. Crouch is right to sack bad Winky!"
"Winky is having trouble adjusting, Harry Potter,” squeaked Dobby confidentially. “Winky forgets she is not bound to Mr. Crouch anymore; she is allowed to speak her mind now, but she won’t do it."
"Can’t house-elves speak their minds about their masters, then?"
"Oh no, sir, no,” said Dobby, looking suddenly serious. “’Tis part of the house-elf’s enslavement, sir. We keeps their secrets and our silence, sir. We upholds the family’s honor, and we never speaks ill of them — though Professor Dumbledore told Dobby he does not insist upon this. Professor Dumbledore said we is free to — to —"
"He said we is free to call him a — a barmy old codger if we likes, sir!"
"But Dobby is not wanting to, Harry Potter,” he said, talking normally again, and shaking his head so that his ears flapped. “Dobby likes Professor Dumbledore very much, sir, and is proud to keep his secrets and our silence for him."
"But you can say what you like about the Malfoys now?"
"Dobby — Dobby could,” he said doubtfully. He squared his small shoulders. “Dobby could tell Harry Potter that his old masters were — were — bad Dark wizards!"
"Bad Dobby! Bad Dobby!"
"Thank you, Harry Potter, thank you,"
"You just need a bit of practice,"
"Practice!” squealed Winky furiously. “You is ought to be ashamed of yourself, Dobby, talking that way about your masters!"
"They isn’t my masters anymore, Winky!” said Dobby defiantly. “Dobby doesn’t care what they think anymore!"
"Oh you is a bad elf, Dobby!” moaned Winky, tears leaking down her face once more. “My poor Mr. Crouch, what is he doing without Winky? He is needing me, he is needing my help! I is looking after the Crouches all my life, and my mother is doing it before me, and my grandmother is doing it before her . . . oh what is they saying if they knew Winky was freed? Oh the shame, the shame!"
"Winky,” said Hermione firmly, “I’m quite sure Mr. Crouch is getting along perfectly well without you. We’ve seen him, you know —"
"You is seeing my master?” said Winky breathlessly, raising her tearstained face out of her skirt once more and goggling at Hermione. “You is seeing him here at Hogwarts?"
"Yes,” said Hermione, “he and Mr. Bagman are judges in the Triwizard Tournament."
"Mr. Bagman comes too?” squeaked Winky, and to Harry’s great surprise (and Ron’s and Hermione’s too, by the looks on their faces), she looked angry again. “Mr. Bagman is a bad wizard! A very bad wizard! My master isn’t liking him, oh no, not at all!"
"Bagman — bad?"
"Oh yes,” Winky said, nodding her head furiously. “My master is telling Winky some things! But Winky is not saying . . . Winky — Winky keeps her master’s secrets. . . ."
"Poor master, poor master, no Winky to help him no more!"
"Dobby is going to buy a sweater next, Harry Potter!"
"Tell you what, Dobby,” said Ron, who seemed to have taken a great liking to the elf, “I’ll give you the one my mum knits me this Christmas, I always get one from her. You don’t mind maroon, do you?"
"We might have to shrink it a bit to fit you,” Ron told him, “but it’ll go well with your tea cozy."
"Thanks a lot!” Harry said to the elves, who had all clustered around the door to say good night. “See you, Dobby!"
"Harry Potter . . . can Dobby come and see you sometimes, sir?"
"’Course you can,"
"You know what?” said Ron, once he, Hermione, and Harry had left the kitchens behind and were climbing the steps into the entrance hall again. “All these years I’ve been really impressed with Fred and George, nicking food from the kitchens — well, it’s not exactly difficult, is it? They can’t wait to give it away!"
"I think this is the best thing that could have happened to those elves, you know,” said Hermione, leading the way back up the marble staircase. “Dobby coming to work here, I mean. The other elves will see how happy he is, being free, and slowly it’ll dawn on them that they want that too!"
"Let’s hope they don’t look too closely at Winky,"
"Oh she’ll cheer up,” said Hermione, though she sounded a bit doubtful. “Once the shock’s worn off, and she’s got used to Hogwarts, she’ll see how much better off she is without that Crouch man."
"She seems to love him,"
"Doesn’t think much of Bagman, though, does she?” said Harry. “Wonder what Crouch says at home about him?"
"Probably says he’s not a very good Head of Department,” said Hermione, “and let’s face it . . . he’s got a point, hasn’t he?"
"I’d still rather work for him than old Crouch,” said Ron. “At least Bagman’s got a sense of humor."
"Don’t let Percy hear you saying that,"
"Yeah, well, Percy wouldn’t want to work for anyone with a sense of humor, would he?” said Ron, now starting on a chocolate eclair. “Percy wouldn’t recognize a joke if it danced naked in front of him wearing Dobby’s tea cozy."
"Describe, with examples, the ways in which Transforming Spells must be adapted when performing Cross-Species Switches"
"Now that Potter and Weasley have been kind enough to act their age,"
"The Yule Ball is approaching — a traditional part of the Triwizard Tournament and an opportunity for us to socialize with our foreign guests. Now, the ball will be open only to fourth years and above — although you may invite a younger student if you wish —"
"Dress robes will be worn,” Professor McGonagall continued, “and the ball will start at eight o’clock on Christmas Day, finishing at midnight in the Great Hall. Now then —"
"The Yule Ball is of course a chance for us all to — er — let our hair down,"
"But that does NOT mean,” Professor McGonagall went on, “that we will be relaxing the standards of behavior we expect from Hogwarts students. I will be most seriously displeased if a Gryffindor student embarrasses the school in any way."
"Potter — a word, if you please."
"Potter, the champions and their partners —"
"What partners?"
"Your partners for the Yule Ball, Potter,” she said coldly. “Your dance partners."
"Dance partners?” He felt himself going red. “I don’t dance,"
"Oh yes, you do,” said Professor McGonagall irritably. “That’s what I’m telling you. Traditionally, the champions and their partners open the ball."
"I’m not dancing,"
"It is traditional,” said Professor McGonagall firmly. “You are a Hogwarts champion, and you will do what is expected of you as a representative of the school. So make sure you get yourself a partner, Potter."
"But — I don’t —"
"You heard me, Potter,"
"Why do they have to move in packs?” Harry asked Ron as a dozen or so girls walked past them, sniggering and staring at Harry. “How’re you supposed to get one on their own to ask them?"
"Lasso one?” Ron suggested. “Got any idea who you’re going to try?"
"Listen, you’re not going to have any trouble. You’re a champion. You’ve just beaten a Hungarian Horntail. I bet they’ll be queuing up to go with you."
"She was quite good-looking,"
"She was a foot taller than me,” said Harry, still unnerved. “Imagine what I’d look like trying to dance with her."
"They only like him because he’s famous!"
"She didn’ seem very int’rested in magical creatures, ter tell yeh the truth,"
"She jus’ wanted me ter talk about you, Harry,” Hagrid continued in a low voice. “Well, I told her we’d been friends since I went ter fetch yeh from the Dursleys. ‘Never had to tell him off in four years?’ she said. ‘Never played you up in lessons, has he?’ I told her no, an’ she didn’ seem happy at all. Yeh’d think she wanted me to say yeh were horrible, Harry."
"’Course she did,” said Harry, throwing lumps of dragon liver into a large metal bowl and picking up his knife to cut some more. “She can’t keep writing about what a tragic little hero I am, it’ll get boring."
"She wants a new angle, Hagrid,” said Ron wisely as he shelled salamander eggs. “You were supposed to say Harry’s a mad delinquent!"
"But he’s not!"
"She should’ve interviewed Snape,” said Harry grimly. “He’d give her the goods on me any day. ‘Potter has been crossing lines ever since he first arrived at this school. . . .’"
"Said that, did he?” said Hagrid, while Ron and Hermione laughed. “Well, yeh might’ve bent a few rules, Harry, bu’ yeh’re all righ’ really, aren’ you?"
"Cheers, Hagrid,"
"You coming to this ball thing on Christmas Day, Hagrid?"
"Though’ I might look in on it, yeah,” said Hagrid gruffly. “Should be a good do, I reckon. You’ll be openin’ the dancin’, won’ yeh, Harry? Who’re you takin’?"
"No one, yet,"
"Evil, he is,” Ron said bitterly that night in the Gryffindor common room. “Springing a test on us on the last day. Ruining the last bit of term with a whole load of studying."
"Mmm . . . you’re not exactly straining yourself, though, are you?"
"It’s Christmas, Hermione,"
"I’d have thought you’d be doing something constructive, Harry, even if you don’t want to learn your antidotes!"
"Like what?"
"That egg!"
"Come on, Hermione, I’ve got till February the twenty-fourth,"
"But it might take weeks to work it out!” said Hermione. “You’re going to look a real idiot if everyone else knows what the next task is and you don’t!"
"Leave him alone, Hermione, he’s earned a bit of a break,"
"Nice look, Ron . . . go well with your dress robes, that will."
"Ron, can we borrow Pigwidgeon?"
"No, he’s off delivering a letter,” said Ron. “Why?"
"Because George wants to invite him to the ball,"
"Because we want to send a letter, you stupid great prat,"
"Who d’you two keep writing to, eh?"
"Nose out, Ron, or I’ll burn that for you too,” said Fred, waving his wand threateningly. “So . . . you lot got dates for the ball yet?"
"Nope,"
"Well, you’d better hurry up, mate, or all the good ones will be gone,"
"Who’re you going with, then?"
"Angelina,"
"What?” said Ron, taken aback. “You’ve already asked her?"
"Good point,” said Fred. He turned his head and called across the common room, “Oi! Angelina!"
"What?"
"Want to come to the ball with me?"
"All right, then,"
"There you go,” said Fred to Harry and Ron, “piece of cake."
"We’d better use a school owl then, George, come on. . . ."
"We should get a move on, you know . . . ask someone. He’s right. We don’t want to end up with a pair of trolls."
"A pair of . . . what, excuse me?"
"Well — you know,” said Ron, shrugging. “I’d rather go alone than with — with Eloise Midgen, say."
"Her acne’s loads better lately — and she’s really nice!"
"Her nose is off-center,"
"Oh I see,” Hermione said, bristling. “So basically, you’re going to take the best-looking girl who’ll have you, even if she’s completely horrible?"
"Er — yeah, that sounds about right,"
"I’m going to bed,"
"O Come, All Ye Faithful"
"I suppose there’s always Moaning Myrtle,"
"Harry — we’ve just got to grit our teeth and do it,” said Ron on Friday morning, in a tone that suggested they were planning the storming of an impregnable fortress. “When we get back to the common room tonight, we’ll both have partners — agreed?"
"Er . . . okay,"
"I’ll meet you at dinner,"
"Er — Cho? Could I have a word with you?"
"Okay,"
"Er,"
"Wangoballwime?"
"Sorry?"
"D’you — d’you want to go to the ball with me?"
"Oh!” said Cho, and she went red too. “Oh Harry, I’m really sorry,” and she truly looked it. “I’ve already said I’ll go with someone else."
"Oh,"
"Oh okay,” he said, “no problem."
"I’m really sorry,"
"That’s okay,"
"Well —"
"Yeah,"
"Well, ’bye,"
"Who’re you going with?"
"Oh — Cedric,” she said. “Cedric Diggory."
"Oh right,"
"Cedric — Cedric Diggory."
"Fairy lights,"
"Yes, indeed, dear!"
"What’s up, Ron?"
"Why did I do it?” he said wildly. “I don’t know what made me do it!"
"What?"
"He — er — just asked Fleur Delacour to go to the ball with him,"
"You what?"
"I don’t know what made me do it!” Ron gasped again. “What was I playing at? There were people — all around — I’ve gone mad — everyone watching! I was just walking past her in the entrance hall — she was standing there talking to Diggory — and it sort of came over me — and I asked her!"
"She looked at me like I was a sea slug or something. Didn’t even answer. And then — I dunno — I just sort of came to my senses and ran for it."
"She’s part veela,” said Harry. “You were right — her grandmother was one. It wasn’t your fault, I bet you just walked past when she was turning on the old charm for Diggory and got a blast of it — but she was wasting her time. He’s going with Cho Chang."
"I asked her to go with me just now,” Harry said dully, “and she told me."
"This is mad,” said Ron. “We’re the only ones left who haven’t got anyone — well, except Neville. Hey — guess who he asked? Hermione!"
"What?"
"Yeah, I know!” said Ron, some of the color coming back into his face as he started to laugh. “He told me after Potions! Said she’s always been really nice, helping him out with work and stuff — but she told him she was already going with someone. Ha! As if! She just didn’t want to go with Neville . . . I mean, who would?"
"Don’t!” said Ginny, annoyed. “Don’t laugh —"
"Why weren’t you two at dinner?"
"Because — oh shut up laughing, you two — because they’ve both just been turned down by girls they asked to the ball!"
"Thanks a bunch, Ginny,"
"All the good-looking ones taken, Ron?” said Hermione loftily. “Eloise Midgen starting to look quite pretty now, is she? Well, I’m sure you’ll find someone somewhere who’ll have you."
"Hermione, Neville’s right — you are a girl. . . ."
"Oh well spotted,"
"Well — you can come with one of us!"
"No, I can’t,"
"Oh come on,” he said impatiently, “we need partners, we’re going to look really stupid if we haven’t got any, everyone else has . . ."
"I can’t come with you,” said Hermione, now blushing, “because I’m already going with someone."
"No, you’re not!” said Ron. “You just said that to get rid of Neville!"
"Oh did I?” said Hermione, and her eyes flashed dangerously. “Just because it’s taken you three years to notice, Ron, doesn’t mean no one else has spotted I’m a girl!"
"Okay, okay, we know you’re a girl,” he said. “That do? Will you come now?"
"I’ve already told you!” Hermione said very angrily. “I’m going with someone else!"
"She’s lying,"
"She’s not,"
"Who is it then?"
"I’m not telling you, it’s her business,"
"Right,” said Ron, who looked extremely put out, “this is getting stupid. Ginny, you can go with Harry, and I’ll just —"
"I can’t,” said Ginny, and she went scarlet too. “I’m going with — with Neville. He asked me when Hermione said no, and I thought . . . well . . . I’m not going to be able to go otherwise, I’m not in fourth year.” She looked extremely miserable. “I think I’ll go and have dinner,"
"What’s got into them?"
"Wait here,” he said to Ron, and he stood up, walked straight up to Parvati, and said, “Parvati? Will you go to the ball with me?"
"Yes, all right then,"
"Thanks,” said Harry, in relief. “Lavender — will you go with Ron?"
"She’s going with Seamus,"
"Can’t you think of anyone who’d go with Ron?"
"What about Hermione Granger?"
"She’s going with someone else."
"Ooooh — who?"
"No idea,” he said. “So what about Ron?"
"Well . . .” said Parvati slowly, “I suppose my sister might . . . Padma, you know . . . in Ravenclaw. I’ll ask her if you like."
"Yeah, that would be great,” said Harry. “Let me know, will you?"
"It is too ’eavy, all zis ’Ogwarts food,” they heard her saying grumpily as they left the Great Hall behind her one evening (Ron skulking behind Harry, keen not to be spotted by Fleur). “I will not fit into my dress robes!"
"Oooh there’s a tragedy,” Hermione snapped as Fleur went out into the entrance hall. “She really thinks a lot of herself, that one, doesn’t she?"
"Hermione — who are you going to the ball with?"
"I’m not telling you, you’ll just make fun of me."
"You’re joking, Weasley!” said Malfoy, behind them. “You’re not telling me someone’s asked that to the ball? Not the long-molared Mudblood?"
"Hello, Professor Moody!"
"Twitchy little ferret, aren’t you, Malfoy?"
"Hermione,” said Ron, looking sideways at her, suddenly frowning, “your teeth . . ."
"What about them?"
"Well, they’re different . . . I’ve just noticed. . . ."
"Of course they are — did you expect me to keep those fangs Malfoy gave me?"
"No, I mean, they’re different to how they were before he put that hex on you. . . . They’re all . . . straight and — and normal-sized."
"Well . . . when I went up to Madam Pomfrey to get them shrunk, she held up a mirror and told me to stop her when they were back to how they normally were,” she said. “And I just . . . let her carry on a bit.” She smiled even more widely. “Mum and Dad won’t be too pleased. I’ve been trying to persuade them to let me shrink them for ages, but they wanted me to carry on with my braces. You know, they’re dentists, they just don’t think teeth and magic should — look! Pigwidgeon’s back!"
"Oh look at the weeny owl! Isn’t he cute?"
"Stupid little feathery git!” Ron hissed, hurrying up the stairs and snatching up Pigwidgeon. “You bring letters to the addressee! You don’t hang around showing off!"
"Clear off!” Ron snapped at them, waving the fist holding Pigwidgeon, who hooted more happily than ever as he soared through the air. “Here — take it, Harry,"
"That’s what Krum did!"
"He sounds exactly like Moody,” said Harry quietly, tucking the letter away again inside his robes. “‘Constant vigilance!’ You’d think I walk around with my eyes shut, banging off the walls. . . ."
"But he’s right, Harry,” said Hermione, “you have still got two tasks to do. You really ought to have a look at that egg, you know, and start working out what it means. . . ."
"Hermione, he’s got ages!” snapped Ron. “Want a game of chess, Harry?"
"Yeah, okay,” said Harry. Then, spotting the look on Hermione’s face, he said, “Come on, how’m I supposed to concentrate with all this noise going on? I won’t even be able to hear the egg over this lot."
"Oh I suppose not,"
"Dobby!” Harry yelled, scrambling away from the elf so fast he almost fell out of bed. “Don’t do that!"
"Dobby is sorry, sir!” squeaked Dobby anxiously, jumping backward with his long fingers over his mouth. “Dobby is only wanting to wish Harry Potter ‘Merry Christmas’ and bring him a present, sir! Harry Potter did say Dobby could come and see him sometimes, sir!"
"It’s okay,” said Harry, still breathing rather faster than usual, while his heart rate returned to normal. “Just — just prod me or something in future, all right, don’t bend over me like that. . . ."
"Someone attacking you, Harry?"
"No, it’s just Dobby,” Harry muttered. “Go back to sleep."
"Nah . . . presents!"
"Can Dobby give Harry Potter his present?"
"’Course you can,” said Harry. “Er . . . I’ve got something for you too."
"Sorry, I forgot to wrap them. . . ."
"Socks are Dobby’s favorite, favorite clothes, sir!” he said, ripping off his odd ones and pulling on Uncle Vernon’s. “I has seven now, sir. . . . But sir . . .” he said, his eyes widening, having pulled both socks up to their highest extent, so that they reached to the bottom of his shorts, “they has made a mistake in the shop, Harry Potter, they is giving you two the same!"
"Ah, no, Harry, how come you didn’t spot that?” said Ron, grinning over from his own bed, which was now strewn with wrapping paper. “Tell you what, Dobby — here you go — take these two, and you can mix them up properly. And here’s your sweater."
"Sir is very kind!” he squeaked, his eyes brimming with tears again, bowing deeply to Ron. “Dobby knew sir must be a great wizard, for he is Harry Potter’s greatest friend, but Dobby did not know that he was also as generous of spirit, as noble, as selfless —"
"They’re only socks,” said Ron, who had gone slightly pink around the ears, though he looked rather pleased all the same. “Wow, Harry —” He had just opened Harry’s present, a Chudley Cannon hat. “Cool!"
"Dobby is making them himself, sir!” the elf said happily. “He is buying the wool out of his wages, sir!"
"They’re . . . they’re really . . . well, thanks, Dobby,"
"Dobby must go now, sir, we is already making Christmas dinner in the kitchens!"
"What, you need three hours?” said Ron, looking at her incredulously and paying for his lapse in concentration when a large snowball, thrown by George, hit him hard on the side of the head. “Who’re you going with?"
"Lairy fights, that’s the one!"
"I still can’t work out how you two got the best-looking girls in the year,"
"Animal magnetism,"
"You — er — look nice,"
"Thanks,” she said. “Padma’s going to meet you in the entrance hall,"
"Right,” said Ron, looking around. “Where’s Hermione?"
"Shall we go down then, Harry?"
"Okay,"
"Hi,"
"Hi,” said Ron, not looking at her, but staring around at the crowd. “Oh no . . ."
"Where is Hermione?"
"Champions over here, please!"
"See you in a minute"
"Hi, Harry!” she said. “Hi, Parvati!"
"I’ve been promoted,” Percy said before Harry could even ask, and from his tone, he might have been announcing his election as supreme ruler of the universe. “I’m now Mr. Crouch’s personal assistant, and I’m here representing him."
"Why didn’t he come?"
"I’m afraid to say Mr. Crouch isn’t well, not well at all. Hasn’t been right since the World Cup. Hardly surprising — overwork. He’s not as young as he was — though still quite brilliant, of course, the mind remains as great as it ever was. But the World Cup was a fiasco for the whole Ministry, and then, Mr. Crouch suffered a huge personal shock with the misbehavior of that house-elf of his, Blinky, or whatever she was called. Naturally, he dismissed her immediately afterward, but — well, as I say, he’s getting on, he needs looking after, and I think he’s found a definite drop in his home comforts since she left. And then we had the tournament to arrange, and the aftermath of the Cup to deal with — that revolting Skeeter woman buzzing around — no, poor man, he’s having a well-earned, quiet Christmas. I’m just glad he knew he had someone he could rely upon to take his place."
"Weatherby"
"Pork chops!"
"Vell, ve have a castle also, not as big as this, nor as comfortable, I am thinking,” he was telling Hermione. “Ve have just four floors, and the fires are lit only for magical purposes. But ve have grounds larger even than these — though in vinter, ve have very little daylight, so ve are not enjoying them. But in summer ve are flying every day, over the lakes and the mountains —"
"Now, now, Viktor!” said Karkaroff with a laugh that didn’t reach his cold eyes, “don’t go giving away anything else, now, or your charming friend will know exactly where to find us!"
"Igor, all this secrecy . . . one would almost think you didn’t want visitors."
"Well, Dumbledore,” said Karkaroff, displaying his yellowing teeth to their fullest extent, “we are all protective of our private domains, are we not? Do we not jealously guard the halls of learning that have been entrusted to us? Are we not right to be proud that we alone know our school’s secrets, and right to protect them?"
"Oh I would never dream of assuming I know all Hogwarts’ secrets, Igor,” said Dumbledore amicably. “Only this morning, for instance, I took a wrong turning on the way to the bathroom and found myself in a beautifully proportioned room I have never seen before, containing a really rather magnificent collection of chamber pots. When I went back to investigate more closely, I discovered that the room had vanished. But I must keep an eye out for it. Possibly it is only accessible at five-thirty in the morning. Or it may only appear at the quarter moon — or when the seeker has an exceptionally full bladder."
"Zis is nothing,” she said dismissively, looking around at the sparkling walls of the Great Hall. “At ze Palace of Beauxbatons, we ’ave ice sculptures all around ze dining chamber at Chreestmas. Zey do not melt, of course . . . zey are like ’uge statues of diamond, glittering around ze place. And ze food is seemply superb. And we ’ave choirs of wood nymphs, ’oo serenade us as we eat. We ’ave none of zis ugly armor in ze ’alls, and eef a poltergeist ever entaired into Beauxbatons, ’e would be expelled like zat."
"Absolutely right,” he said quickly, slapping his own hand down on the table in imitation of Fleur. “Like that. Yeah."
"Hermy-own."
"Her-my-oh-nee,"
"Herm-own-ninny."
"Close enough,"
"Come on!” Parvati hissed. “We’re supposed to dance!"
"Nice socks, Potter,"
"Oh — yeah, Dobby the house-elf knitted them for me,"
"He is so creepy!” Parvati whispered as Moody clunked away. “I don’t think that eye should be allowed!"
"Let’s sit down, shall we?"
"Oh — but — this is a really good one!"
"No, I don’t like it,"
"How’s it going?"
"You don’t mind, do you, Harry?"
"What?"
"Oh never mind,"
"Hi,"
"It’s hot, isn’t it?” said Hermione, fanning herself with her hand. “Viktor’s just gone to get some drinks."
"Viktor?” he said. “Hasn’t he asked you to call him Vicky yet?"
"What’s up with you?"
"If you don’t know,” said Ron scathingly, “I’m not going to tell you."
"Ron, what — ?"
"He’s from Durmstrang!” spat Ron. “He’s competing against Harry! Against Hogwarts! You — you’re —” Ron was obviously casting around for words strong enough to describe Hermione’s crime, “fraternizing with the enemy, that’s what you’re doing!"
"Don’t be so stupid!” she said after a moment. “The enemy! Honestly — who was the one who was all excited when they saw him arrive? Who was the one who wanted his autograph? Who’s got a model of him up in their dormitory?"
"I s’pose he asked you to come with him while you were both in the library?"
"Yes, he did,” said Hermione, the pink patches on her cheeks glowing more brightly. “So what?"
"What happened — trying to get him to join spew, were you?"
"No, I wasn’t! If you really want to know, he — he said he’d been coming up to the library every day to try and talk to me, but he hadn’t been able to pluck up the courage!"
"Yeah, well — that’s his story,"
"And what’s that supposed to mean?"
"Obvious, isn’t it? He’s Karkaroff’s student, isn’t he? He knows who you hang around with. . . . He’s just trying to get closer to Harry — get inside information on him — or get near enough to jinx him —"
"For your information, he hasn’t asked me one single thing about Harry, not one —"
"Then he’s hoping you’ll help him find out what his egg means! I suppose you’ve been putting your heads together during those cozy little library sessions —"
"I’d never help him work out that egg!” said Hermione, looking outraged. “Never. How could you say something like that — I want Harry to win the tournament, Harry knows that, don’t you, Harry?"
"You’ve got a funny way of showing it,"
"This whole tournament’s supposed to be about getting to know foreign wizards and making friends with them!"
"No it isn’t!” shouted Ron. “It’s about winning!"
"Ron,” said Harry quietly, “I haven’t got a problem with Hermione coming with Krum —"
"Why don’t you go and find Vicky, he’ll be wondering where you are,"
"Don’t call him Vicky!"
"Are you going to ask me to dance at all?"
"No,"
"Fine,"
"Vare is Herm-own-ninny?"
"No idea,” said Ron mulishly, looking up at him. “Lost her, have you?"
"Vell, if you see her, tell her I haff drinks,"
"Made friends with Viktor Krum, have you, Ron?"
"Excellent! That’s the whole point, you know — international magical cooperation!"
"What do they think they’re doing, annoying senior Ministry members?” Percy hissed, watching Fred and George suspiciously. “No respect . . ."
"I hope my brothers weren’t bothering you, Mr. Bagman?"
"What? Oh not at all, not at all!” said Bagman. “No, they were just telling me a bit more about those fake wands of theirs. Wondering if I could advise them on the marketing. I’ve promised to put them in touch with a couple of contacts of mine at Zonko’s Joke Shop. . . ."
"How do you feel the tournament’s going, Mr. Bagman? Our department’s quite satisfied — the hitch with the Goblet of Fire” — he glanced at Harry — “was a little unfortunate, of course, but it seems to have gone very smoothly since, don’t you think?"
"Oh yes,” Bagman said cheerfully, “it’s all been enormous fun. How’s old Barty doing? Shame he couldn’t come."
"Oh I’m sure Mr. Crouch will be up and about in no time,” said Percy importantly, “but in the meantime, I’m more than willing to take up the slack. Of course, it’s not all attending balls” — he laughed airily — “oh no, I’ve had to deal with all sorts of things that have cropped up in his absence — you heard Ali Bashir was caught smuggling a consignment of flying carpets into the country? And then we’ve been trying to persuade the Transylvanians to sign the International Ban on Dueling. I’ve got a meeting with their Head of Magical Cooperation in the new year —"
"Let’s go for a walk,” Ron muttered to Harry, “get away from Percy. . . ."
". . . don’t see what there is to fuss about, Igor."
"Severus, you cannot pretend this isn’t happening!” Karkaroff’s voice sounded anxious and hushed, as though keen not to be overheard. “It’s been getting clearer and clearer for months. I am becoming seriously concerned, I can’t deny it —"
"Then flee,” said Snape’s voice curtly. “Flee — I will make your excuses. I, however, am remaining at Hogwarts."
"Ten points from Ravenclaw, Fawcett!” Snape snarled as a girl ran past him. “And ten points from Hufflepuff too, Stebbins!” as a boy went rushing after her. “And what are you two doing?"
"We’re walking,” Ron told Snape shortly. “Not against the law, is it?"
"Keep walking, then!"
"What’s got Karkaroff all worried?"
"And since when have he and Snape been on first-name terms?"
"Momen’ I saw yeh, I knew,"
"What did you know, ’Agrid?"
"I jus’ knew . . . knew you were like me. . . . Was it yer mother or yer father?"
"I — I don’t know what you mean, ’Agrid. . . ."
"It was my mother,” said Hagrid quietly. “She was one o’ the las’ ones in Britain. ’Course, I can’ remember her too well . . . she left, see. When I was abou’ three. She wasn’ really the maternal sort. Well . . . it’s not in their natures, is it? Dunno what happened to her . . . might be dead fer all I know. . . ."
"Me dad was broken-hearted when she wen’. Tiny little bloke, my dad was. By the time I was six I could lift him up an’ put him on top o’ the dresser if he annoyed me. Used ter make him laugh. . . .” Hagrid’s deep voice broke. Madame Maxime was listening, motionless, apparently staring at the silvery fountain. “Dad raised me . . . but he died, o’ course, jus’ after I started school. Sorta had ter make me own way after that. Dumbledore was a real help, mind. Very kind ter me, he was. . . ."
"So . . . anyway . . . enough abou’ me. What about you? Which side you got it on?"
"It is chilly,” she said — but whatever the weather was doing, it was nowhere near as cold as her voice. “I think I will go in now."
"Eh?” said Hagrid blankly. “No, don’ go! I’ve — I’ve never met another one before!"
"Anuzzer what, precisely?"
"Another half-giant, o’ course!"
"’Ow dare you!” shrieked Madame Maxime. Her voice exploded through the peaceful night air like a foghorn; behind him, Harry heard Fleur and Roger fall out of their rosebush. “I ’ave nevair been more insulted in my life! ’Alf-giant? Moi? I ’ave — I ’ave big bones!"
"C’mon,” Harry said, very quietly to Ron. “Let’s go. . . ."
"What’s up?"
"Did you know?” he whispered. “About Hagrid being half-giant?"
"No,” Harry said, shrugging. “So what?"
"So what?"
"I’ll explain inside,” said Ron quietly, “c’mon. . . ."
"So?” Harry prompted Ron. “What’s the problem with giants?"
"Well, they’re . . . they’re . . .” Ron struggled for words. “. . . not very nice,"
"Who cares?” Harry said. “There’s nothing wrong with Hagrid!"
"I know there isn’t, but . . . blimey, no wonder he keeps it quiet,” Ron said, shaking his head. “I always thought he’d got in the way of a bad Engorgement Charm when he was a kid or something. Didn’t like to mention it. . . ."
"But what’s it matter if his mother was a giantess?"
"Well . . . no one who knows him will care, ’cos they’ll know he’s not dangerous,” said Ron slowly. “But . . . Harry, they’re just vicious, giants. It’s like Hagrid said, it’s in their natures, they’re like trolls . . . they just like killing, everyone knows that. There aren’t any left in Britain now, though."
"What happened to them?"
"Well, they were dying out anyway, and then loads got themselves killed by Aurors. There’re supposed to be giants abroad, though. . . . They hide out in mountains mostly. . . ."
"I don’t know who Maxime thinks she’s kidding,” Harry said, watching Madame Maxime sitting alone at the judges’ table, looking very somber. “If Hagrid’s half-giant, she definitely is. Big bones . . . the only thing that’s got bigger bones than her is a dinosaur."
"Hey — Harry!"
"Yeah?"
"Listen . . .” Cedric lowered his voice as Ron disappeared. “I owe you one for telling me about the dragons. You know that golden egg? Does yours wail when you open it?"
"Yeah,"
"Well . . . take a bath, okay?"
"What?"
"Take a bath, and — er — take the egg with you, and — er — just mull things over in the hot water. It’ll help you think. . . . Trust me."
"Tell you what,” Cedric said, “use the prefects’ bathroom. Fourth door to the left of that statue of Boris the Bewildered on the fifth floor. Password’s ‘pine fresh.’ Gotta go . . . want to say good night —"
"Fairy lights!"
"Well, if you don’t like it, you know what the solution is, don’t you?"
"Oh yeah?” Ron yelled back. “What’s that?"
"Next time there’s a ball, ask me before someone else does, and not as a last resort!"
"Well,” he sputtered, looking thunderstruck, “well — that just proves — completely missed the point —"
"but it’s way too much bother to do every day,"
"Well, I thought he must be,” she said, shrugging. “I knew he couldn’t be pure giant because they’re about twenty feet tall. But honestly, all this hysteria about giants. They can’t all be horrible. . . . It’s the same sort of prejudice that people have toward werewolves. . . . It’s just bigotry, isn’t it?"
"Hurry up, now, the bell rang five minutes ago,"
"Who’re you?” said Ron, staring at her. “Where’s Hagrid?"
"My name is Professor Grubbly-Plank,” she said briskly. “I am your temporary Care of Magical Creatures teacher."
"Where’s Hagrid?"
"He is indisposed,"
"This way, please,"
"What’s wrong with Hagrid?"
"Never you mind,"
"I do mind, though,” said Harry hotly. “What’s up with him?"
"ooooohed!"
"Oh it’s so beautiful!” whispered Lavender Brown. “How did she get it? They’re supposed to be really hard to catch!"
"Boys keep back!” barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, throwing out an arm and catching Harry hard in the chest. “They prefer the woman’s touch, unicorns. Girls to the front, and approach with care, come on, easy does it. . . ."
"What d’you reckon’s wrong with him? You don’t think a skrewt — ?"
"Oh he hasn’t been attacked, Potter, if that’s what you’re thinking,” said Malfoy softly. “No, he’s just too ashamed to show his big, ugly face."
"What d’you mean?"
"There you go,” he said. “Hate to break it to you, Potter. . . ."
"Mad-Eye"
"very frightening."
"I was attacked by a hippogriff, and my friend Vincent Crabbe got a bad bite off a flobberworm,” says Draco Malfoy, a fourth-year student. “We all hate Hagrid, but we’re just too scared to say anything."
"Blast-Ended Skrewts,"
"I was just having some fun,"
"How did she find out?"
"What d’you mean, ‘we all hate Hagrid’?” Harry spat at Malfoy. “What’s this rubbish about him” — he pointed at Crabbe — “getting a bad bite off a flobberworm? They haven’t even got teeth!"
"Well, I think this should put an end to the oaf’s teaching career,” said Malfoy, his eyes glinting. “Half-giant . . . and there was me thinking he’d just swallowed a bottle of Skele-Gro when he was young. . . . None of the mummies and daddies are going to like this at all. . . . They’ll be worried he’ll eat their kids, ha, ha. . . ."
"You —"
"Are you paying attention over there?"
"I hope she stays, that woman!” said Parvati Patil when the lesson had ended and they were all heading back to the castle for lunch. “That’s more what I thought Care of Magical Creatures would be like . . . proper creatures like unicorns, not monsters. . . ."
"What about Hagrid?"
"What about him?” said Parvati in a hard voice. “He can still be gamekeeper, can’t he?"
"That was a really good lesson,” said Hermione as they entered the Great Hall. “I didn’t know half the things Professor Grubbly-Plank told us about uni —"
"Look at this!"
"How did that horrible Skeeter woman find out? You don’t think Hagrid told her?"
"No,” said Harry, leading the way over to the Gryffindor table and throwing himself into a chair, furious. “He never even told us, did he? I reckon she was so mad he wouldn’t give her loads of horrible stuff about me, she went ferreting around to get him back."
"Maybe she heard him telling Madame Maxime at the ball,"
"We’d have seen her in the garden!” said Ron. “Anyway, she’s not supposed to come into school anymore, Hagrid said Dumbledore banned her. . . ."
"Maybe she’s got an Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry, ladling chicken casserole onto his plate and splashing it everywhere in his anger. “Sort of thing she’d do, isn’t it, hide in bushes listening to people."
"Like you and Ron did, you mean,"
"We weren’t trying to hear him!” said Ron indignantly. “We didn’t have any choice! The stupid prat, talking about his giantess mother where anyone could have heard him!"
"We’ve got to go and see him,” said Harry. “This evening, after Divination. Tell him we want him back . . . you do want him back?"
"I — well, I’m not going to pretend it didn’t make a nice change, having a proper Care of Magical Creatures lesson for once — but I do want Hagrid back, of course I do!"
"Hagrid, it’s us!” Harry shouted, pounding on the door. “Open up!"
"What’s he avoiding us for?” Hermione said when they had finally given up and were walking back to the school. “He surely doesn’t think we’d care about him being half-giant?"
"Missing your half-breed pal?” he kept whispering to Harry whenever there was a teacher around, so that he was safe from Harry’s retaliation. “Missing the elephant-man?"
"I just thought you’d want to take advantage of the common room being quiet,” she said. “Really get to work on that egg."
"Oh I — I reckon I’ve got a pretty good idea what it’s about now,"
"Have you really?” said Hermione, looking impressed. “Well done!"
"He’s mad!” said Harry, staring at Krum’s dark head as it bobbed out into the middle of the lake. “It must be freezing, it’s January!"
"It’s a lot colder where he comes from,” said Hermione. “I suppose it feels quite warm to him."
"Yeah, but there’s still the giant squid,"
"He’s really nice, you know,” she said. “He’s not at all like you’d think, coming from Durmstrang. He likes it much better here, he told me."
"Doesn’t he ever go into the office?” Hermione whispered suddenly. “Look!"
"In a moment, in a moment!"
"Harry!” he said. “How are you? Been hoping to run into you! Everything going all right?"
"Fine, thanks,"
"Wonder if I could have a quick, private word, Harry?” said Bagman eagerly. “You couldn’t give us a moment, you two, could you?"
"Er — okay,"
"Well, I just thought I’d congratulate you again on your splendid performance against that Horntail, Harry,” said Bagman. “Really superb."
"Thanks,"
"Absolute nightmare,” said Bagman to Harry in an undertone, noticing Harry watching the goblins too. “Their English isn’t too good . . . it’s like being back with all the Bulgarians at the Quidditch World Cup . . . but at least they used sign language another human could recognize. This lot keep gabbling in Gobbledegook . . . and I only know one word of Gobbledegook. Bladvak. It means ‘pickax.’ I don’t like to use it in case they think I’m threatening them."
"What do they want?"
"Er — well . . .” said Bagman, looking suddenly nervous. “They . . . er . . . they’re looking for Barty Crouch."
"Why are they looking for him here?” said Harry. “He’s at the Ministry in London, isn’t he?"
"Er . . . as a matter of fact, I’ve no idea where he is,” said Bagman. “He’s sort of . . . stopped coming to work. Been absent for a couple of weeks now. Young Percy, his assistant, says he’s ill. Apparently he’s just been sending instructions in by owl. But would you mind not mentioning that to anyone, Harry? Because Rita Skeeter’s still poking around everywhere she can, and I’m willing to bet she’d work up Barty’s illness into something sinister. Probably say he’s gone missing like Bertha Jorkins."
"Have you heard anything about Bertha Jorkins?"
"No,” said Bagman, looking strained again. “I’ve got people looking, of course . . .” (About time, thought Harry) “and it’s all very strange. She definitely arrived in Albania, because she met her second cousin there. And then she left the cousin’s house to go south and see an aunt . . . and she seems to have vanished without trace en route. Blowed if I can see where she’s got to . . . she doesn’t seem the type to elope, for instance . . . but still. . . . What are we doing, talking about goblins and Bertha Jorkins? I really wanted to ask you” — he lowered his voice — “how are you getting on with your golden egg?"
"Er . . . not bad,"
"Listen, Harry,” he said (still in a very low voice), “I feel very bad about all this . . . you were thrown into this tournament, you didn’t volunteer for it . . . and if . . .” (his voice was so quiet now, Harry had to lean closer to listen) “if I can help at all . . . a prod in the right direction . . . I’ve taken a liking to you . . . the way you got past that dragon! . . . well, just say the word."
"We’re supposed to work out the clues alone, aren’t we?"
"Well . . . well, yes,” said Bagman impatiently, “but — come on, Harry — we all want a Hogwarts victory, don’t we?"
"Have you offered Cedric help?"
"No, I haven’t,” he said. “I — well, like I say, I’ve taken a liking to you. Just thought I’d offer . . ."
"Well, thanks,” said Harry, “but I think I’m nearly there with the egg . . . couple more days should crack it."
"Hello, Mr. Bagman,” said Fred brightly. “Can we buy you a drink?"
"Er . . . no,” said Bagman, with a last disappointed glance at Harry, “no, thank you, boys . . ."
"Well, I must dash,” he said. “Nice seeing you all. Good luck, Harry."
"What did he want?"
"He offered to help me with the golden egg,"
"He shouldn’t be doing that!” said Hermione, looking very shocked. “He’s one of the judges! And anyway, you’ve already worked it out — haven’t you?"
"Er . . . nearly,"
"Well, I don’t think Dumbledore would like it if he knew Bagman was trying to persuade you to cheat!” said Hermione, still looking deeply disapproving. “I hope he’s trying to help Cedric as much!"
"He’s not, I asked,"
"Who cares if Diggory’s getting help?"
"Those goblins didn’t look very friendly,” said Hermione, sipping her butterbeer. “What were they doing here?"
"Looking for Crouch, according to Bagman,” said Harry. “He’s still ill. Hasn’t been into work."
"Maybe Percy’s poisoning him,” said Ron. “Probably thinks if Crouch snuffs it he’ll be made Head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation."
"Funny, goblins looking for Mr. Crouch. . . . They’d normally deal with the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures."
"Crouch can speak loads of different languages, though,” said Harry. “Maybe they need an interpreter."
"Worrying about poor ’ickle goblins, now, are you?” Ron asked Hermione. “Thinking of starting up S.P.U.G. or something? Society for the Protection of Ugly Goblins?"
"Ha, ha, ha,” said Hermione sarcastically. “Goblins don’t need protection. Haven’t you been listening to what Professor Binns has been telling us about goblin rebellions?"
"No,"
"Well, they’re quite capable of dealing with wizards,” said Hermione, taking another sip of butterbeer. “They’re very clever. They’re not like house-elves, who never stick up for themselves."
"Uh-oh,"
". . . didn’t seem very keen to talk to us, did he, Bozo? Now, why would that be, do you think? And what’s he doing with a pack of goblins in tow anyway? Showing them the sights . . . what nonsense . . . he was always a bad liar. Reckon something’s up? Think we should do a bit of digging? ‘Disgraced Ex-Head of Magical Games and Sports, Ludo Bagman . . . ’ Snappy start to a sentence, Bozo — we just need to find a story to fit it —"
"Trying to ruin someone else’s life?"
"Harry!” she said, beaming. “How lovely! Why don’t you come and join — ?"
"I wouldn’t come near you with a ten-foot broomstick,” said Harry furiously. “What did you do that to Hagrid for, eh?"
"Our readers have a right to the truth, Harry. I am merely doing my —"
"Who cares if he’s half-giant?” Harry shouted. “There’s nothing wrong with him!"
"How about giving me an interview about the Hagrid you know, Harry? The man behind the muscles? Your unlikely friendship and the reasons behind it. Would you call him a father substitute?"
"You horrible woman,” she said, through gritted teeth, “you don’t care, do you, anything for a story, and anyone will do, won’t they? Even Ludo Bagman —"
"Sit down, you silly little girl, and don’t talk about things you don’t understand,” said Rita Skeeter coldly, her eyes hardening as they fell on Hermione. “I know things about Ludo Bagman that would make your hair curl . . . not that it needs it —"
"Let’s go,” said Hermione, “c’mon, Harry — Ron . . ."
"She’ll be after you next, Hermione,"
"Let her try!” said Hermione defiantly; she was shaking with rage. “I’ll show her! Silly little girl, am I? Oh, I’ll get her back for this. First Harry, then Hagrid . . ."
"You don’t want to go upsetting Rita Skeeter,” said Ron nervously. “I’m serious, Hermione, she’ll dig up something on you —"
"My parents don’t read the Daily Prophet. She can’t scare me into hiding!” said Hermione, now striding along so fast that it was all Harry and Ron could do to keep up with her. The last time Harry had seen Hermione in a rage like this, she had hit Draco Malfoy around the face. “And Hagrid isn’t hiding anymore! He should never have let that excuse for a human being upset him! Come on!"
"Hagrid!” Hermione shouted, pounding on his front door. “Hagrid, that’s enough! We know you’re in there! Nobody cares if your mum was a giantess, Hagrid! You can’t let that foul Skeeter woman do this to you! Hagrid, get out here, you’re just being —"
"About t — !"
"Good afternoon,"
"We — er — we wanted to see Hagrid,"
"Yes, I surmised as much,” said Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. “Why don’t you come in?"
"Oh . . . um . . . okay,"
"Hi, Hagrid,"
"’Lo,"
"More tea, I think,” said Dumbledore, closing the door behind Harry, Ron, and Hermione, drawing out his wand, and twiddling it; a revolving tea tray appeared in midair along with a plate of cakes. Dumbledore magicked the tray onto the table, and everybody sat down. There was a slight pause, and then Dumbledore said, “Did you by any chance hear what Miss Granger was shouting, Hagrid?"
"Hermione, Harry, and Ron still seem to want to know you, judging by the way they were attempting to break down the door."
"Of course we still want to know you!” Harry said, staring at Hagrid. “You don’t think anything that Skeeter cow — sorry, Professor,"
"I have gone temporarily deaf and haven’t any idea what you said, Harry,"
"Er — right,” said Harry sheepishly. “I just meant — Hagrid, how could you think we’d care what that — woman — wrote about you?"
"Living proof of what I’ve been telling you, Hagrid,” said Dumbledore, still looking carefully up at the ceiling. “I have shown you the letters from the countless parents who remember you from their own days here, telling me in no uncertain terms that if I sacked you, they would have something to say about it —"
"Not all of ’em,” said Hagrid hoarsely. “Not all of ’em wan’ me ter stay."
"Really, Hagrid, if you are holding out for universal popularity, I’m afraid you will be in this cabin for a very long time,” said Dumbledore, now peering sternly over his half-moon spectacles. “Not a week has passed since I became headmaster of this school when I haven’t had at least one owl complaining about the way I run it. But what should I do? Barricade myself in my study and refuse to talk to anybody?"
"Yeh — yeh’re not half-giant!"
"Hagrid, look what I’ve got for relatives!” Harry said furiously. “Look at the Dursleys!"
"An excellent point,” said Professor Dumbledore. “My own brother, Aberforth, was prosecuted for practicing inappropriate charms on a goat. It was all over the papers, but did Aberforth hide? No, he did not! He held his head high and went about his business as usual! Of course, I’m not entirely sure he can read, so that may not have been bravery. . . ."
"Come back and teach, Hagrid,” said Hermione quietly, “please come back, we really miss you."
"I refuse to accept your resignation, Hagrid, and I expect you back at work on Monday,” he said. “You will join me for breakfast at eight-thirty in the Great Hall. No excuses. Good afternoon to you all."
"Great man, Dumbledore . . . great man . . ."
"Yeah, he is,” said Ron. “Can I have one of these cakes, Hagrid?"
"Help yerself,” said Hagrid, wiping his eyes on the back of his hand. “Ar, he’s righ’, o’ course — yeh’re all righ’ . . . I bin stupid . . . my ol’ dad woulda bin ashamed o’ the way I’ve bin behavin’. . . .” More tears leaked out, but he wiped them away more forcefully, and said, “Never shown you a picture of my old dad, have I? Here . . ."
"Tha’ was taken jus’ after I got inter Hogwarts,"
"Dumbledore was the one who stuck up for me after Dad went. Got me the gamekeeper job . . . trusts people, he does. Gives ’em second chances . . . tha’s what sets him apar’ from other Heads, see. He’ll accept anyone at Hogwarts, s’long as they’ve got the talent. Knows people can turn out okay even if their families weren’ . . . well . . . all tha’ respectable. But some don’ understand that. There’s some who’d always hold it against yeh . . . there’s some who’d even pretend they just had big bones rather than stand up an’ say — I am what I am, an’ I’m not ashamed. ‘Never be ashamed,’ my ol’ dad used ter say, ‘there’s some who’ll hold it against you, but they’re not worth botherin’ with.’ An’ he was right. I’ve bin an idiot. I’m not botherin’ with her no more, I promise yeh that. Big bones . . . I’ll give her big bones."
"Yeh know wha’, Harry?” he said, looking up from the photograph of his father, his eyes very bright, “when I firs’ met you, you reminded me o’ me a bit. Mum an’ Dad gone, an’ you was feelin’ like yeh wouldn’ fit in at Hogwarts, remember? Not sure yeh were really up to it . . . an’ now look at yeh, Harry! School champion!"
"Yeh know what I’d love, Harry? I’d love yeh ter win, I really would. It’d show ’em all . . . yeh don’ have ter be pureblood ter do it. Yeh don’ have ter be ashamed of what yeh are. It’d show ’em Dumbledore’s the one who’s got it righ’, lettin’ anyone in as long as they can do magic. How you doin’ with that egg, Harry?"
"Great,” said Harry. “Really great."
"Tha’s my boy . . . you show ’em, Harry, you show ’em. Beat ’em all."
"banana fritters”). “Good luck,"
"Pine fresh,"
"I’d try putting it in the water, if I were you."
"Myrtle!” Harry said in outrage, “I’m — I’m not wearing anything!"
"I closed my eyes when you got in,” she said, blinking at him through her thick spectacles. “You haven’t been to see me for ages."
"Yeah . . . well . . .” said Harry, bending his knees slightly, just to make absolutely sure Myrtle couldn’t see anything but his head, “I’m not supposed to come into your bathroom, am I? It’s a girls’ one."
"You didn’t used to care,” said Myrtle miserably. “You used to be in there all the time."
"I got told off for going in there,” said Harry, which was half-true; Percy had once caught him coming out of Myrtle’s bathroom. “I thought I’d better not come back after that."
"Oh . . . I see . . .” said Myrtle, picking at a spot on her chin in a morose sort of way. “Well . . . anyway . . . I’d try the egg in the water. That’s what Cedric Diggory did."
"Have you been spying on him too?” said Harry indignantly. “What d’you do, sneak up here in the evenings to watch the prefects take baths?"
"Sometimes,” said Myrtle, rather slyly, “but I’ve never come out to speak to anyone before."
"I’m honored,” said Harry darkly. “You keep your eyes shut!"
"Go on, then . . . open it under the water!"
"You need to put your head under too,” said Myrtle, who seemed to be thoroughly enjoying bossing him around. “Go on!"
"Hear it?"
"Yeah . . . ‘Come seek us where our voices sound . . .’ and if I need persuading . . . hang on, I need to listen again. . . ."
"I’ve got to go and look for people who can’t use their voices above the ground. . . .” he said slowly. “Er . . . who could that be?"
"Slow, aren’t you?"
"Well, that’s what Diggory thought,” she said. “He lay there talking to himself for ages about it. Ages and ages . . . nearly all the bubbles had gone. . . ."
"Underwater . . .” Harry said slowly. “Myrtle . . . what lives in the lake, apart from the giant squid?"
"Oh all sorts,” she said. “I sometimes go down there . . . sometimes don’t have any choice, if someone flushes my toilet when I’m not expecting it. . . ."
"Well, does anything in there have a human voice? Hang on —"
"Myrtle, there aren’t merpeople in there, are there?"
"Oooh, very good,” she said, her thick glasses twinkling, “it took Diggory much longer than that! And that was with her awake too” — Myrtle jerked her head toward the mermaid with an expression of great dislike on her glum face — “giggling and showing off and flashing her fins. . . ."
"That’s it, isn’t it?” said Harry excitedly. “The second task’s to go and find the merpeople in the lake and . . . and . . ."
"Myrtle,” Harry said slowly, “how am I supposed to breathe?"
"Tactless!"
"What’s tactless?"
"Talking about breathing in front of me!” she said shrilly, and her voice echoed loudly around the bathroom. “When I can’t . . . when I haven’t . . . not for ages . . ."
"Sorry,” he said impatiently. “I didn’t mean — I just forgot . . ."
"Oh yes, very easy to forget Myrtle’s dead,” said Myrtle, gulping, looking at him out of swollen eyes. “Nobody missed me even when I was alive. Took them hours and hours to find my body — I know, I was sitting there waiting for them. Olive Hornby came into the bathroom — ‘Are you in here again, sulking, Myrtle?’ she said, ‘because Professor Dippet asked me to look for you —’ And then she saw my body . . . ooooh, she didn’t forget it until her dying day, I made sure of that . . . followed her around and reminded her, I did. I remember at her brother’s wedding —"
"We’ve taken what you’ll sorely miss."
"— and then, of course, she went to the Ministry of Magic to stop me stalking her, so I had to come back here and live in my toilet."
"Good,” said Harry vaguely. “Well, I’m a lot further on than I was. . . . Shut your eyes again, will you? I’m getting out."
"Will you come and visit me in my bathroom again sometime?"
"Er . . . I’ll try,” Harry said, though privately thinking the only way he’d be visiting Myrtle’s bathroom again was if every other toilet in the castle got blocked. “See you, Myrtle . . . thanks for your help."
"’Bye, ’bye,"
"Severus Snape"
"PEEVES!"
"What’s this racket? Wake up the whole castle, will you? I’ll have you, Peeves, I’ll have you, you’ll . . . and what is this?"
"Harry Potter"
"Egg?” Filch said quietly at the foot of the stairs. “My sweet!” — Mrs. Norris was obviously with him — “This is a Triwizard clue! This belongs to a school champion!"
"PEEVES!” Filch roared gleefully. “You’ve been stealing!"
"Hiding, are you?” he said softly. “I’m coming to get you, Peeves. . . . You’ve gone and stolen a Triwizard clue, Peeves. . . . Dumbledore’ll have you out of here for this, you filthy, pilfering poltergeist. . . ."
"Filch? What’s going on?"
"It’s Peeves, Professor,” Filch whispered malevolently. “He threw this egg down the stairs."
"Peeves?” said Snape softly, staring at the egg in Filch’s hands. “But Peeves couldn’t get into my office. . . ."
"This egg was in your office, Professor?"
"Of course not,” Snape snapped. “I heard banging and wailing —"
"Yes, Professor, that was the egg —"
"— I was coming to investigate —"
"— Peeves threw it, Professor —"
"— and when I passed my office, I saw that the torches were lit and a cupboard door was ajar! Somebody has been searching it!"
"But Peeves couldn’t —"
"I know he couldn’t, Filch!” Snape snapped again. “I seal my office with a spell none but a wizard could break!” Snape looked up the stairs, straight through Harry, and then down into the corridor below. “I want you to come and help me search for the intruder, Filch."
"I — yes, Professor — but —"
"The thing is, Professor,” said Filch plaintively, “the headmaster will have to listen to me this time. Peeves has been stealing from a student, it might be my chance to get him thrown out of the castle once and for all —"
"Filch, I don’t give a damn about that wretched poltergeist; it’s my office that’s —"
"Pajama party, is it?"
"Professor Snape and I heard noises, Professor,” said Filch at once. “Peeves the Poltergeist, throwing things around as usual — and then Professor Snape discovered that someone had broken into his off —"
"Shut up!"
"Did I hear that correctly, Snape?” he asked slowly. “Someone broke into your office?"
"It is unimportant,"
"On the contrary,” growled Moody, “it is very important. Who’d want to break into your office?"
"A student, I daresay,” said Snape. Harry could see a vein flickering horribly on Snape’s greasy temple. “It has happened before. Potion ingredients have gone missing from my private store cupboard . . . students attempting illicit mixtures, no doubt. . . ."
"Reckon they were after potion ingredients, eh?” said Moody. “Not hiding anything else in your office, are you?"
"You know I’m hiding nothing, Moody,” he said in a soft and dangerous voice, “as you’ve searched my office pretty thoroughly yourself."
"Auror’s privilege, Snape. Dumbledore told me to keep an eye —"
"Dumbledore happens to trust me,” said Snape through clenched teeth. “I refuse to believe that he gave you orders to search my office!"
"’Course Dumbledore trusts you,” growled Moody. “He’s a trusting man, isn’t he? Believes in second chances. But me — I say there are spots that don’t come off, Snape. Spots that never come off, d’you know what I mean?"
"Get back to bed, Snape."
"You don’t have the authority to send me anywhere!” Snape hissed, letting go of his arm as though angry with himself. “I have as much right to prowl this school after dark as you do!"
"Prowl away,” said Moody, but his voice was full of menace. “I look forward to meeting you in a dark corridor some time. . . . You’ve dropped something, by the way. . . ."
"It’s mine! Mine!"
"Accio Parchment!"
"My mistake,” Moody said calmly. “It’s mine — must’ve dropped it earlier —"
"Potter,"
"What’s that?"
"Potter!” Snape snarled, and he actually turned his head and stared right at the place where Harry was, as though he could suddenly see him. “That egg is Potter’s egg. That piece of parchment belongs to Potter. I have seen it before, I recognize it! Potter is here! Potter, in his Invisibility Cloak!"
"There’s nothing there, Snape!” barked Moody, “but I’ll be happy to tell the headmaster how quickly your mind jumped to Harry Potter!"
"Meaning what?"
"Meaning that Dumbledore’s very interested to know who’s got it in for that boy!” said Moody, limping nearer still to the foot of the stairs. “And so am I, Snape . . . very interested. . . ."
"I merely thought,” said Snape, in a voice of forced calm, “that if Potter was wandering around after hours again . . . it’s an unfortunate habit of his . . . he should be stopped. For — for his own safety."
"Ah, I see,” said Moody softly. “Got Potter’s best interests at heart, have you?"
"I think I will go back to bed,"
"Best idea you’ve had all night,” said Moody. “Now, Filch, if you’ll just give me that egg —"
"No!” said Filch, clutching the egg as though it were his firstborn son. “Professor Moody, this is evidence of Peeves’ treachery!"
"It’s the property of the champion he stole it from,” said Moody. “Hand it over, now."
"Never mind, my sweet . . . we’ll see Dumbledore in the morning . . . tell him what Peeves was up to. . . ."
"Close shave, Potter,"
"Yeah . . . I — er . . . thanks,"
"What is this thing?"
"Map of Hogwarts,"
"Merlin’s beard,” Moody whispered, staring at the map, his magical eye going haywire. “This . . . this is some map, Potter!"
"Yeah, it’s . . . quite useful,” Harry said. His eyes were starting to water from the pain. “Er — Professor Moody, d’you think you could help me — ?"
"What? Oh! Yes . . . yes, of course . . ."
"Potter . . .” he said slowly, “you didn’t happen, by any chance, to see who broke into Snape’s office, did you? On this map, I mean?"
"Er . . . yeah, I did . . .” Harry admitted. “It was Mr. Crouch."
"Crouch?” he said. “You’re — you’re sure, Potter?"
"Positive,"
"Well, he’s not here anymore,” said Moody, his eye still whizzing over the map. “Crouch . . . that’s very — very interesting. . . ."
"Er . . . Professor Moody . . . why d’you reckon Mr. Crouch wanted to look around Snape’s office?"
"Put it this way, Potter,” Moody muttered finally, “they say old Mad-Eye’s obsessed with catching Dark wizards . . . but I’m nothing — nothing — compared to Barty Crouch."
"Professor Moody?” he said again. “D’you think . . . could this have anything to do with . . . maybe Mr. Crouch thinks there’s something going on. . . ."
"Like what?"
"I don’t know,” Harry muttered, “odd stuff’s been happening lately, hasn’t it? It’s been in the Daily Prophet . . . the Dark Mark at the World Cup, and the Death Eaters and everything. . . ."
"You’re a sharp boy, Potter,” he said. His magical eye roved back to the Marauder’s Map. “Crouch could be thinking along those lines,” he said slowly. “Very possible . . . there have been some funny rumors flying around lately — helped along by Rita Skeeter, of course. It’s making a lot of people nervous, I reckon.” A grim smile twisted his lopsided mouth. “Oh if there’s one thing I hate,” he muttered, more to himself than to Harry, and his magical eye was fixed on the left-hand corner of the map, “it’s a Death Eater who walked free. . . ."
"And now I want to ask you a question, Potter,"
"Can I borrow this?"
"Oh!"
"Yeah, okay."
"Good boy,” growled Moody. “I can make good use of this . . . this might be exactly what I’ve been looking for. . . . Right, bed, Potter, come on, now. . . ."
"You ever thought of a career as an Auror, Potter?"
"No,"
"You want to consider it,” said Moody, nodding and looking at Harry thoughtfully. “Yes, indeed . . . and incidentally . . . I’m guessing you weren’t just taking that egg for a walk tonight?"
"Er — no,” said Harry, grinning. “I’ve been working out the clue."
"Nothing like a nighttime stroll to give you ideas, Potter. . . . See you in the morning. . . ."
"Keep your voice down!” said Harry crossly. “I just need to — sort of fine-tune it, all right?"
"Just forget the egg for a minute, all right?” Harry hissed as Professor Flitwick went whizzing resignedly past them, landing on top of a large cabinet. “I’m trying to tell you about Snape and Moody. . . ."
"Snape said Moody’s searched his office as well?” Ron whispered, his eyes alight with interest as he Banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand (it soared into the air and knocked Parvati’s hat off). “What . . . d’you reckon Moody’s here to keep an eye on Snape as well as Karkaroff?"
"Well, I dunno if that’s what Dumbledore asked him to do, but he’s definitely doing it,” said Harry, waving his wand without paying much attention, so that his cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk. “Moody said Dumbledore only lets Snape stay here because he’s giving him a second chance or something. . . ."
"What?” said Ron, his eyes widening, his next cushion spinning high into the air, ricocheting off the chandelier, and dropping heavily onto Flitwick’s desk. “Harry . . . maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name in the Goblet of Fire!"
"Oh Ron,” said Hermione, shaking her head skeptically, “we thought Snape was trying to kill Harry before, and it turned out he was saving Harry’s life, remember?"
"I don’t care what Moody says,” Hermione went on. “Dumbledore’s not stupid. He was right to trust Hagrid and Professor Lupin, even though loads of people wouldn’t have given them jobs, so why shouldn’t he be right about Snape, even if Snape is a bit —"
"— evil,” said Ron promptly. “Come on, Hermione, why are all these Dark wizard catchers searching his office, then?"
"Why has Mr. Crouch been pretending to be ill?” said Hermione, ignoring Ron. “It’s a bit funny, isn’t it, that he can’t manage to come to the Yule Ball, but he can get up here in the middle of the night when he wants to?"
"You just don’t like Crouch because of that elf, Winky,"
"You just want to think Snape’s up to something,"
"I just want to know what Snape did with his first chance, if he’s on his second one,"
"Of course, the ideal solution would be for you to Transfigure yourself into a submarine or something,” Hermione said. “If only we’d done human Transfiguration already! But I don’t think we start that until sixth year, and it can go badly wrong if you don’t know what you’re doing. . . ."
"Yeah, I don’t fancy walking around with a periscope sticking out of my head,” said Harry. “I s’pose I could always attack someone in front of Moody; he might do it for me. . . ."
"I don’t think he’d let you choose what you wanted to be turned into, though,” said Hermione seriously. “No, I think your best chance is some sort of charm."
"Weekend after next,” whispered Hermione, who had read the note over Harry’s shoulder. “Here — take my quill and send this owl back straight away."
"What’s he want to know about the next Hogsmeade weekend for?"
"Dunno,” said Harry dully. The momentary happiness that had flared inside him at the sight of the owl had died. “Come on . . . Care of Magical Creatures."
"Easier ter spot than the adults,"
"You okay, Harry?"
"Yeah,"
"Jus’ nervous, eh?"
"Bit,"
"Harry,” said Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his shoulder, so that Harry’s knees buckled under its weight, “I’d’ve bin worried before I saw yeh take on tha’ Horntail, but I know now yeh can do anythin’ yeh set yer mind ter. I’m not worried at all. Yeh’re goin’ ter be fine. Got yer clue worked out, haven’ yeh?"
"Yeh’re goin’ ter win,” Hagrid growled, patting Harry’s shoulder again, so that Harry actually felt himself sink a couple of inches into the soft ground. “I know it. I can feel it. Yeh’re goin’ ter win, Harry."
"water” on a page, but more often than not it was merely “Take two pints of water, half a pound of shredded mandrake leaves, and a newt . . ."
"I don’t reckon it can be done,” said Ron’s voice flatly from the other side of the table. “There’s nothing. Nothing. Closest was that thing to dry up puddles and ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere near powerful enough to drain the lake."
"There must be something,” Hermione muttered, moving a candle closer to her. Her eyes were so tired she was poring over the tiny print of Olde and Forgotten Bewitchments and Charmes with her nose about an inch from the page. “They’d never have set a task that was undoable."
"They have,” said Ron. “Harry, just go down to the lake tomorrow, right, stick your head in, yell at the merpeople to give back whatever they’ve nicked, and see if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate."
"There’s a way of doing it!” Hermione said crossly. “There just has to be!"
"I know what I should have done,” said Harry, resting, facedown, on Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts. “I should’ve learned to be an Animagus like Sirius."
"Yeah, you could’ve turned into a goldfish any time you wanted!"
"Or a frog,"
"It takes years to become an Animagus, and then you have to register yourself and everything,” said Hermione vaguely, now squinting down the index of Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions. “Professor McGonagall told us, remember . . . you’ve got to register yourself with the Improper Use of Magic Office . . . what animal you become, and your markings, so you can’t abuse it. . . ."
"Hermione, I was joking,” said Harry wearily. “I know I haven’t got a chance of turning into a frog by tomorrow morning. . . ."
"Oh this is no use,” Hermione said, snapping shut Weird Wizarding Dilemmas. “Who on earth wants to make their nose hair grow into ringlets?"
"I wouldn’t mind,” said Fred Weasley’s voice. “Be a talking point, wouldn’t it?"
"What’re you two doing here?"
"Looking for you,” said George. “McGonagall wants you, Ron. And you, Hermione."
"Why?"
"Dunno . . . she was looking a bit grim, though,"
"We’re supposed to take you down to her office,"
"We’ll meet you back in the common room,” Hermione told Harry as she got up to go with Ron — both of them looked very anxious. “Bring as many of these books as you can, okay?"
"Right,"
"I knew it . . .’e is too young, ’e is only a little boy."
"Lumos,"
"Come and get it!” she giggled maliciously. “Come on, jump!"
"I can’t,” Harry panted, snatching at the Firebolt, and struggling not to sink. “Give it to me!"
"That hurts — get off — ouch —"
"Harry Potter must wake up, sir!"
"Stop poking me —"
"Dobby must poke Harry Potter, sir, he must wake up!"
"Harry Potter needs to hurry!” squeaked Dobby. “The second task starts in ten minutes, and Harry Potter —"
"Ten minutes?” Harry croaked. “Ten — ten minutes?"
"Hurry, Harry Potter!” squeaked Dobby, plucking at Harry’s sleeve. “You is supposed to be down by the lake with the other champions, sir!"
"It’s too late, Dobby,” Harry said hopelessly. “I’m not doing the task, I don’t know how —"
"Harry Potter will do the task!” squeaked the elf. “Dobby knew Harry had not found the right book, so Dobby did it for him!"
"What?” said Harry. “But you don’t know what the second task is —"
"Dobby knows, sir! Harry Potter has to go into the lake and find his Wheezy —"
"Find my what?"
"— and take his Wheezy back from the merpeople!"
"What’s a Wheezy?"
"Your Wheezy, sir, your Wheezy — Wheezy who is giving Dobby his sweater!"
"What?” Harry gasped. “They’ve got . . . they’ve got Ron?"
"The thing Harry Potter will miss most, sir!” squeaked Dobby. “‘But past an hour —’"
"— ‘the prospect’s black,’” Harry recited, staring, horror-struck, at the elf. “‘Too late, it’s gone, it won’t come back.’ Dobby — what’ve I got to do?"
"You has to eat this, sir!” squeaked the elf, and he put his hand in the pocket of his shorts and drew out a ball of what looked like slimy, grayish-green rat tails. “Right before you go into the lake, sir — gillyweed!"
"What’s it do?"
"It will make Harry Potter breathe underwater, sir!"
"Dobby,” said Harry frantically, “listen — are you sure about this?"
"help"
"Dobby is quite sure, sir!” said the elf earnestly. “Dobby hears things, sir, he is a house-elf, he goes all over the castle as he lights the fires and mops the floors. Dobby heard Professor McGonagall and Professor Moody in the staffroom, talking about the next task. . . . Dobby cannot let Harry Potter lose his Wheezy!"
"Dobby is supposed to be in the kitchens, sir!” Dobby squealed as they burst into the corridor. “Dobby will be missed — good luck, Harry Potter, sir, good luck!"
"See you later, Dobby!"
"I’m . . . here . . ."
"Where have you been?” said a bossy, disapproving voice. “The task’s about to start!"
"Now, now, Percy!” said Ludo Bagman, who was looking intensely relieved to see Harry. “Let him catch his breath!"
"All right, Harry?” Bagman whispered as he moved Harry a few feet farther away from Krum. “Know what you’re going to do?"
"Yeah,"
"Sonorus!"
"Well, all our champions are ready for the second task, which will start on my whistle. They have precisely an hour to recover what has been taken from them. On the count of three, then. One . . . two . . . three!"
"Relashio!"
"How are you getting on?"
"Myrtle!"
"You want to try over there!” she said, pointing. “I won’t come with you. . . . I don’t like them much, they always chase me when I get too close. . . ."
"An hour long you’ll have to look, And to recover what we took . . ."
". . . your time’s half gone, so tarry not Lest what you seek stays here to rot. . . ."
"We do not help,"
"Come ON!"
"You take your own hostage,” one of them said to him. “Leave the others . . ."
"No way!"
"Your task is to retrieve your own friend . . . leave the others . . ."
"She’s my friend too!” Harry yelled, gesturing toward Hermione, an enormous silver bubble emerging soundlessly from his lips. “And I don’t want them to die either!"
"Got lost!” he mouthed, looking panic-stricken. “Fleur and Krum’re coming now!"
"Get out of the way!"
"You’ve got until three!” Harry shouted; a great stream of bubbles burst from him, but he held up three fingers to make sure they got the message. “One . . .” (he put down a finger) “two . . ."
"Wet, this, isn’t it?” Then he spotted Fleur’s sister. “What did you bring her for?"
"Fleur didn’t turn up, I couldn’t leave her,"
"Harry, you prat,” said Ron, “you didn’t take that song thing seriously, did you? Dumbledore wouldn’t have let any of us drown!"
"The song said —"
"It was only to make sure you got back inside the time limit!” said Ron. “I hope you didn’t waste time down there acting the hero!"
"C’mon,” Harry said shortly, “help me with her, I don’t think she can swim very well."
"Gabrielle! Gabrielle! Is she alive? Is she ’urt?"
"She’s fine!"
"Gerroff, Percy, I’m all right!"
"It was ze grindylows . . . zey attacked me . . . oh Gabrielle, I thought . . . I thought . . ."
"Come here, you,"
"Harry, well done!” Hermione cried. “You did it, you found out how all by yourself!"
"Well —” said Harry. He would have told her about Dobby, but he had just noticed Karkaroff watching him. He was the only judge who had not left the table; the only judge not showing signs of pleasure and relief that Harry, Ron, and Fleur’s sister had got back safely. “Yeah, that’s right,"
"You haff a water beetle in your hair, Herm-own-ninny,” said Krum. Harry had the impression that Krum was drawing her attention back onto himself; perhaps to remind her that he had just rescued her from the lake, but Hermione brushed away the beetle impatiently and said, “You’re well outside the time limit, though, Harry. . . . Did it take you ages to find us?"
"No . . . I found you okay. . . ."
"A conference before we give the marks, I think."
"Look after Gabrielle,” she told her, and then she turned to Harry. “You saved ’er,” she said breathlessly. “Even though she was not your ’ostage."
"Yeah,"
"And you too — you ’elped —"
"Yeah,” said Ron, looking extremely hopeful, “yeah, a bit —"
"Fleur Delacour, though she demonstrated excellent use of the Bubble-Head Charm, was attacked by grindylows as she approached her goal, and failed to retrieve her hostage. We award her twenty-five points."
"I deserved zero,"
"Cedric Diggory, who also used the Bubble-Head Charm, was first to return with his hostage, though he returned one minute outside the time limit of an hour.” Enormous cheers from the Hufflepuffs in the crowd; Harry saw Cho give Cedric a glowing look. “We therefore award him forty-seven points."
"Viktor Krum used an incomplete form of Transfiguration, which was nevertheless effective, and was second to return with his hostage. We award him forty points."
"Harry Potter used gillyweed to great effect,” Bagman continued. “He returned last, and well outside the time limit of an hour. However, the Merchieftainess informs us that Mr. Potter was first to reach the hostages, and that the delay in his return was due to his determination to return all hostages to safety, not merely his own."
"Most of the judges,” and here, Bagman gave Karkaroff a very nasty look, “feel that this shows moral fiber and merits full marks. However . . . Mr. Potter’s score is forty-five points."
"There you go, Harry!” Ron shouted over the noise. “You weren’t being thick after all — you were showing moral fiber!"
"The third and final task will take place at dusk on the twenty-fourth of June,” continued Bagman. “The champions will be notified of what is coming precisely one month beforehand. Thank you all for your support of the champions."
"But I had my wand hidden up my sleeve,” he assured Padma Patil, who seemed to be a lot keener on Ron now that he was getting so much attention and was making a point of talking to him every time they passed in the corridors. “I could’ve taken those mer-idiots any time I wanted."
"What were you going to do, snore at them?"
"He hasn’t come back to Hogsmeade?"
"It looks like it, doesn’t it?"
"I can’t believe him,” said Harry tensely, “if he’s caught . . ."
"Made it so far, though, hasn’t he?” said Ron. “And it’s not like the place is swarming with dementors anymore."
"There they are, there they are!"
"You might find something to interest you in there, Granger!"
"never felt this way about any other girl."
"She’s really ugly,” says Pansy Parkinson, a pretty and vivacious fourth-year student, “but she’d be well up to making a Love Potion, she’s quite brainy. I think that’s how she’s doing it."
"I told you!” Ron hissed at Hermione as she stared down at the article. “I told you not to annoy Rita Skeeter! She’s made you out to be some sort of — of scarlet woman!"
"Scarlet woman?"
"It’s what my mum calls them,"
"If that’s the best Rita can do, she’s losing her touch,” said Hermione, still giggling, as she threw Witch Weekly onto the empty chair beside her. “What a pile of old rubbish."
"There’s something funny, though,” said Hermione ten minutes later, holding her pestle suspended over a bowl of scarab beetles. “How could Rita Skeeter have known . . . ?"
"Known what?” said Ron quickly. “You haven’t been mixing up Love Potions, have you?"
"Don’t be stupid,” Hermione snapped, starting to pound up her beetles again. “No, it’s just . . . how did she know Viktor asked me to visit him over the summer?"
"What?"
"He asked me right after he’d pulled me out of the lake,” Hermione muttered. “After he’d got rid of his shark’s head. Madam Pomfrey gave us both blankets and then he sort of pulled me away from the judges so they wouldn’t hear, and he said, if I wasn’t doing anything over the summer, would I like to —"
"And what did you say?"
"And he did say he’d never felt the same way about anyone else,” Hermione went on, going so red now that Harry could almost feel the heat coming from her, “but how could Rita Skeeter have heard him? She wasn’t there . . . or was she? Maybe she has got an Invisibility Cloak; maybe she sneaked onto the grounds to watch the second task. . . ."
"And what did you say?"
"Well, I was too busy seeing whether you and Harry were okay to —"
"Fascinating though your social life undoubtedly is, Miss Granger,” said an icy voice right behind them, and all three of them jumped, “I must ask you not to discuss it in my class. Ten points from Gryffindor."
"Ah . . . reading magazines under the table as well?” Snape added, snatching up the copy of Witch Weekly. “A further ten points from Gryffindor . . . oh but of course . . .” Snape’s black eyes glittered as they fell on Rita Skeeter’s article. “Potter has to keep up with his press cuttings. . . ."
"‘Harry Potter’s Secret Heartache’ . . . dear, dear, Potter, what’s ailing you now? ‘A boy like no other, perhaps . . .’"
"‘ . . . Harry Potter’s well-wishers must hope that, next time, he bestows his heart upon a worthier candidate.’ How very touching,” sneered Snape, rolling up the magazine to continued gales of laughter from the Slytherins. “Well, I think I had better separate the three of you, so you can keep your minds on your potions rather than on your tangled love lives. Weasley, you stay here. Miss Granger, over there, beside Miss Parkinson. Potter — that table in front of my desk. Move. Now."
"All this press attention seems to have inflated your already overlarge head, Potter,"
"You might be laboring under the delusion that the entire Wizarding world is impressed with you,” Snape went on, so quietly that no one else could hear him (Harry continued to pound his scarab beetles, even though he had already reduced them to a very fine powder), “but I don’t care how many times your picture appears in the papers. To me, Potter, you are nothing but a nasty little boy who considers rules to be beneath him."
"So I give you fair warning, Potter,” Snape continued in a softer and more dangerous voice, “pint-sized celebrity or not — if I catch you breaking into my office one more time —"
"I haven’t been anywhere near your office!"
"Don’t lie to me,” Snape hissed, his fathomless black eyes boring into Harry’s. “Boomslang skin. Gillyweed. Both come from my private stores, and I know who stole them."
"I don’t know what you’re talking about,"
"You were out of bed on the night my office was broken into!” Snape hissed. “I know it, Potter! Now, Mad-Eye Moody might have joined your fan club, but I will not tolerate your behavior! One more nighttime stroll into my office, Potter, and you will pay!"
"Right,” said Harry coolly, turning back to his ginger roots. “I’ll bear that in mind if I ever get the urge to go in there."
"Do you know what this is, Potter?"
"No,"
"It is Veritaserum — a Truth Potion so powerful that three drops would have you spilling your innermost secrets for this entire class to hear,” said Snape viciously. “Now, the use of this potion is controlled by very strict Ministry guidelines. But unless you watch your step, you might just find that my hand slips” — he shook the crystal bottle slightly — “right over your evening pumpkin juice. And then, Potter . . . then we’ll find out whether you’ve been in my office or not."
"Enter,"
"We need to talk,"
"I’ll talk to you after my lesson, Karkaroff,"
"I want to talk now, while you can’t slip off, Severus. You’ve been avoiding me."
"After the lesson,"
"What’s so urgent?"
"This,"
"Well?” said Karkaroff, still making every effort not to move his lips. “Do you see? It’s never been this clear, never since —"
"Put it away!"
"But you must have noticed —"
"We can talk later, Karkaroff!” spat Snape. “Potter! What are you doing?"
"Clearing up my armadillo bile, Professor,"
"Hello, Sirius,"
"Chicken!"
"Thanks,” said Sirius, opening it, grabbing a drumstick, sitting down on the cave floor, and tearing off a large chunk with his teeth. “I’ve been living off rats mostly. Can’t steal too much food from Hogsmeade; I’d draw attention to myself."
"What’re you doing here, Sirius?"
"Fulfilling my duty as godfather,” said Sirius, gnawing on the chicken bone in a very doglike way. “Don’t worry about it, I’m pretending to be a lovable stray."
"I want to be on the spot. Your last letter . . . well, let’s just say things are getting fishier. I’ve been stealing the paper every time someone throws one out, and by the looks of things, I’m not the only one who’s getting worried."
"What if they catch you? What if you’re seen?"
"You three and Dumbledore are the only ones around here who know I’m an Animagus,"
"They’re making it sound like he’s dying,” said Harry slowly. “But he can’t be that ill if he managed to get up here. . . ."
"My brother’s Crouch’s personal assistant,” Ron informed Sirius. “He says Crouch is suffering from overwork."
"Mind you, he did look ill, last time I saw him up close,” said Harry slowly, still reading the story. “The night my name came out of the goblet. . . ."
"Getting his comeuppance for sacking Winky, isn’t he?” said Hermione, an edge to her voice. She was stroking Buckbeak, who was crunching up Sirius’s chicken bones. “I bet he wishes he hadn’t done it now — bet he feels the difference now she’s not there to look after him."
"Hermione’s obsessed with house-elves,"
"Crouch sacked his house-elf?"
"Yeah, at the Quidditch World Cup,"
"Let me get this straight,” he said after a while, brandishing a fresh chicken leg. “You first saw the elf in the Top Box. She was saving Crouch a seat, right?"
"Right,"
"But Crouch didn’t turn up for the match?"
"No,” said Harry. “I think he said he’d been too busy."
"Harry, did you check your pockets for your wand after you’d left the Top Box?"
"Erm . . .” Harry thought hard. “No,” he said finally. “I didn’t need to use it before we got in the forest. And then I put my hand in my pocket, and all that was in there were my Omnioculars.” He stared at Sirius. “Are you saying whoever conjured the Mark stole my wand in the Top Box?"
"It’s possible,"
"Winky didn’t steal that wand!"
"The elf wasn’t the only one in that box,” said Sirius, his brow furrowed as he continued to pace. “Who else was sitting behind you?"
"Loads of people,” said Harry. “Some Bulgarian ministers . . . Cornelius Fudge . . . the Malfoys . . ."
"The Malfoys!” said Ron suddenly, so loudly that his voice echoed all around the cave, and Buckbeak tossed his head nervously. “I bet it was Lucius Malfoy!"
"Anyone else?"
"No one,"
"Yes, there was, there was Ludo Bagman,"
"Oh yeah . . ."
"I don’t know anything about Bagman except that he used to be Beater for the Wimbourne Wasps,” said Sirius, still pacing. “What’s he like?"
"He’s okay,” said Harry. “He keeps offering to help me with the Triwizard Tournament."
"Does he, now?” said Sirius, frowning more deeply. “I wonder why he’d do that?"
"Says he’s taken a liking to me,"
"Hmm,"
"We saw him in the forest just before the Dark Mark appeared,” Hermione told Sirius. “Remember?"
"Yeah, but he didn’t stay in the forest, did he?” said Ron. “The moment we told him about the riot, he went off to the campsite."
"How d’you know?” Hermione shot back. “How d’you know where he Disapparated to?"
"Come off it,” said Ron incredulously. “Are you saying you reckon Ludo Bagman conjured the Dark Mark?"
"It’s more likely he did it than Winky,"
"Told you,” said Ron, looking meaningfully at Sirius, “told you she’s obsessed with house —"
"When the Dark Mark had been conjured, and the elf had been discovered holding Harry’s wand, what did Crouch do?"
"Went to look in the bushes,” said Harry, “but there wasn’t anyone else there."
"Of course,” Sirius muttered, pacing up and down, “of course, he’d want to pin it on anyone but his own elf . . . and then he sacked her?"
"Yes,” said Hermione in a heated voice, “he sacked her, just because she hadn’t stayed in her tent and let herself get trampled —"
"Hermione, will you give it a rest with the elf!"
"She’s got the measure of Crouch better than you have, Ron. If you want to know what a man’s like, take a good look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals."
"All these absences of Barty Crouch’s . . . he goes to the trouble of making sure his house-elf saves him a seat at the Quidditch World Cup, but doesn’t bother to turn up and watch. He works very hard to reinstate the Triwizard Tournament, and then stops coming to that too. . . . It’s not like Crouch. If he’s ever taken a day off work because of illness before this, I’ll eat Buckbeak."
"D’you know Crouch, then?"
"Oh I know Crouch all right,” he said quietly. “He was the one who gave the order for me to be sent to Azkaban — without a trial."
"What?"
"You’re kidding!"
"No, I’m not,” said Sirius, taking another great bite of chicken. “Crouch used to be Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, didn’t you know?"
"He was tipped for the next Minister of Magic,” said Sirius. “He’s a great wizard, Barty Crouch, powerfully magical — and power-hungry. Oh never a Voldemort supporter,” he said, reading the look on Harry’s face. “No, Barty Crouch was always very outspoken against the Dark Side. But then a lot of people who were against the Dark Side . . . well, you wouldn’t understand . . . you’re too young. . . ."
"That’s what my dad said at the World Cup,” said Ron, with a trace of irritation in his voice. “Try us, why don’t you?"
"All right, I’ll try you. . . ."
"Well, times like that bring out the best in some people and the worst in others. Crouch’s principles might’ve been good in the beginning — I wouldn’t know. He rose quickly through the Ministry, and he started ordering very harsh measures against Voldemort’s supporters. The Aurors were given new powers — powers to kill rather than capture, for instance. And I wasn’t the only one who was handed straight to the dementors without trial. Crouch fought violence with violence, and authorized the use of the Unforgivable Curses against suspects. I would say he became as ruthless and cruel as many on the Dark Side. He had his supporters, mind you — plenty of people thought he was going about things the right way, and there were a lot of witches and wizards clamoring for him to take over as Minister of Magic. When Voldemort disappeared, it looked like only a matter of time until Crouch got the top job. But then something rather unfortunate happened. . . .” Sirius smiled grimly. “Crouch’s own son was caught with a group of Death Eaters who’d managed to talk their way out of Azkaban. Apparently they were trying to find Voldemort and return him to power."
"Crouch’s son was caught?"
"Yep,” said Sirius, throwing his chicken bone to Buckbeak, flinging himself back down on the ground beside the loaf of bread, and tearing it in half. “Nasty little shock for old Barty, I’d imagine. Should have spent a bit more time at home with his family, shouldn’t he? Ought to have left the office early once in a while . . . gotten to know his own son."
"Was his son a Death Eater?"
"No idea,” said Sirius, still stuffing down bread. “I was in Azkaban myself when he was brought in. This is mostly stuff I’ve found out since I got out. The boy was definitely caught in the company of people I’d bet my life were Death Eaters — but he might have been in the wrong place at the wrong time, just like the house-elf."
"Did Crouch try and get his son off?"
"Crouch let his son off? I thought you had the measure of him, Hermione! Anything that threatened to tarnish his reputation had to go; he had dedicated his whole life to becoming Minister of Magic. You saw him dismiss a devoted house-elf because she associated him with the Dark Mark again — doesn’t that tell you what he’s like? Crouch’s fatherly affection stretched just far enough to give his son a trial, and by all accounts, it wasn’t much more than an excuse for Crouch to show how much he hated the boy . . . then he sent him straight to Azkaban."
"He gave his own son to the dementors?"
"That’s right,” said Sirius, and he didn’t look remotely amused now. “I saw the dementors bringing him in, watched them through the bars in my cell door. He can’t have been more than nineteen. They took him into a cell near mine. He was screaming for his mother by nightfall. He went quiet after a few days, though . . . they all went quiet in the end . . . except when they shrieked in their sleep. . . ."
"So he’s still in Azkaban?"
"No,” said Sirius dully. “No, he’s not in there anymore. He died about a year after they brought him in."
"He died?"
"He wasn’t the only one,” said Sirius bitterly. “Most go mad in there, and plenty stop eating in the end. They lose the will to live. You could always tell when a death was coming, because the dementors could sense it, they got excited. That boy looked pretty sickly when he arrived. Crouch being an important Ministry member, he and his wife were allowed a deathbed visit. That was the last time I saw Barty Crouch, half carrying his wife past my cell. She died herself, apparently, shortly afterward. Grief. Wasted away just like the boy. Crouch never came for his son’s body. The dementors buried him outside the fortress; I watched them do it."
"So old Crouch lost it all, just when he thought he had it made,” he continued, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand. “One moment, a hero, poised to become Minister of Magic . . . next, his son dead, his wife dead, the family name dishonored, and, so I’ve heard since I escaped, a big drop in popularity. Once the boy had died, people started feeling a bit more sympathetic toward the son and started asking how a nice young lad from a good family had gone so badly astray. The conclusion was that his father never cared much for him. So Cornelius Fudge got the top job, and Crouch was shunted sideways into the Department of International Magical Cooperation."
"Moody says Crouch is obsessed with catching Dark wizards,"
"Yeah, I’ve heard it’s become a bit of a mania with him,” said Sirius, nodding. “If you ask me, he still thinks he can bring back the old popularity by catching one more Death Eater."
"And he sneaked up here to search Snape’s office!"
"Yes, and that doesn’t make sense at all,"
"Yeah, it does!"
"Listen, if Crouch wants to investigate Snape, why hasn’t he been coming to judge the tournament? It would be an ideal excuse to make regular visits to Hogwarts and keep an eye on him."
"So you think Snape could be up to something, then?"
"Look, I don’t care what you say, Dumbledore trusts Snape —"
"Oh give it a rest, Hermione,” said Ron impatiently. “I know Dumbledore’s brilliant and everything, but that doesn’t mean a really clever Dark wizard couldn’t fool him —"
"Why did Snape save Harry’s life in the first year, then? Why didn’t he just let him die?"
"I dunno — maybe he thought Dumbledore would kick him out —"
"What d’you think, Sirius?"
"I think they’ve both got a point,” said Sirius, looking thoughtfully at Ron and Hermione. “Ever since I found out Snape was teaching here, I’ve wondered why Dumbledore hired him. Snape’s always been fascinated by the Dark Arts, he was famous for it at school. Slimy, oily, greasy-haired kid, he was,” Sirius added, and Harry and Ron grinned at each other. “Snape knew more curses when he arrived at school than half the kids in seventh year, and he was part of a gang of Slytherins who nearly all turned out to be Death Eaters."
"Rosier and Wilkes — they were both killed by Aurors the year before Voldemort fell. The Lestranges — they’re a married couple — they’re in Azkaban. Avery — from what I’ve heard he wormed his way out of trouble by saying he’d been acting under the Imperius Curse — he’s still at large. But as far as I know, Snape was never even accused of being a Death Eater — not that that means much. Plenty of them were never caught. And Snape’s certainly clever and cunning enough to keep himself out of trouble."
"Snape knows Karkaroff pretty well, but he wants to keep that quiet,"
"Yeah, you should’ve seen Snape’s face when Karkaroff turned up in Potions yesterday!” said Harry quickly. “Karkaroff wanted to talk to Snape, he says Snape’s been avoiding him. Karkaroff looked really worried. He showed Snape something on his arm, but I couldn’t see what it was."
"He showed Snape something on his arm?” said Sirius, looking frankly bewildered. He ran his fingers distractedly through his filthy hair, then shrugged again. “Well, I’ve no idea what that’s about . . . but if Karkaroff’s genuinely worried, and he’s going to Snape for answers . . ."
"There’s still the fact that Dumbledore trusts Snape, and I know Dumbledore trusts where a lot of other people wouldn’t, but I just can’t see him letting Snape teach at Hogwarts if he’d ever worked for Voldemort."
"Why are Moody and Crouch so keen to get into Snape’s office then?"
"Well,” said Sirius slowly, “I wouldn’t put it past Mad-Eye to have searched every single teacher’s office when he got to Hogwarts. He takes his Defense Against the Dark Arts seriously, Moody. I’m not sure he trusts anyone at all, and after the things he’s seen, it’s not surprising. I’ll say this for Moody, though, he never killed if he could help it. Always brought people in alive where possible. He was tough, but he never descended to the level of the Death Eaters. Crouch, though . . . he’s a different matter . . . is he really ill? If he is, why did he make the effort to drag himself up to Snape’s office? And if he’s not . . . what’s he up to? What was he doing at the World Cup that was so important he didn’t turn up in the Top Box? What’s he been doing while he should have been judging the tournament?"
"You say your brother’s Crouch’s personal assistant? Any chance you could ask him if he’s seen Crouch lately?"
"I can try,” said Ron doubtfully. “Better not make it sound like I reckon Crouch is up to anything dodgy, though. Percy loves Crouch."
"And you might try and find out whether they’ve got any leads on Bertha Jorkins while you’re at it,"
"Bagman told me they hadn’t,"
"Yes, he’s quoted in the article in there,” said Sirius, nodding at the paper. “Blustering on about how bad Bertha’s memory is. Well, maybe she’s changed since I knew her, but the Bertha I knew wasn’t forgetful at all — quite the reverse. She was a bit dim, but she had an excellent memory for gossip. It used to get her into a lot of trouble; she never knew when to keep her mouth shut. I can see her being a bit of a liability at the Ministry of Magic . . . maybe that’s why Bagman didn’t bother to look for her for so long. . . ."
"What’s the time?"
"It’s half past three,"
"You’d better get back to school,” Sirius said, getting to his feet. “Now listen . . .” He looked particularly hard at Harry. “I don’t want you lot sneaking out of school to see me, all right? Just send notes to me here. I still want to hear about anything odd. But you’re not to go leaving Hogwarts without permission; it would be an ideal opportunity for someone to attack you."
"No one’s tried to attack me so far, except a dragon and a couple of grindylows,"
"I don’t care . . . I’ll breathe freely again when this tournament’s over, and that’s not until June. And don’t forget, if you’re talking about me among yourselves, call me Snuffles, okay?"
"I’ll walk to the edge of the village with you,” said Sirius, “see if I can scrounge another paper."
"Wonder if Percy knows all that stuff about Crouch?” Ron said as they walked up the drive to the castle. “But maybe he doesn’t care . . . it’d probably just make him admire Crouch even more. Yeah, Percy loves rules. He’d just say Crouch was refusing to break them for his own son."
"Percy would never throw any of his family to the dementors,"
"I don’t know,” said Ron. “If he thought we were standing in the way of his career . . . Percy’s really ambitious, you know. . . ."
"Poor old Snuffles,” said Ron, breathing deeply. “He must really like you, Harry. . . . Imagine having to live off rats."
"Harry Potter is too good to Dobby!"
"You saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you really did,"
"No chance of more of those eclairs, is there?"
"You’ve just had breakfast!"
"We should get some stuff to send up to Snuffles,"
"Good idea,” said Ron. “Give Pig something to do. You couldn’t give us a bit of extra food, could you?"
"Dobby, where’s Winky?"
"Winky is over there by the fire, miss,"
"Oh dear,"
"Winky is getting through six bottles a day now,"
"Well, it’s not strong, that stuff,"
"’Tis strong for a house-elf, sir,"
"Winky is pining, Harry Potter,” Dobby whispered sadly. “Winky wants to go home. Winky still thinks Mr. Crouch is her master, sir, and nothing Dobby says will persuade her that Professor Dumbledore is her master now."
"Hey, Winky,” said Harry, struck by a sudden inspiration, walking over to her, and bending down, “you don’t know what Mr. Crouch might be up to, do you? Because he’s stopped turning up to judge the Triwizard Tournament."
"M — Master is stopped — hic — coming?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, “we haven’t seen him since the first task. The Daily Prophet’s saying he’s ill."
"Master — hic — ill?"
"But we’re not sure if that’s true,"
"Master is needing his — hic — Winky!” whimpered the elf. “Master cannot — hic — manage — hic — all by himself. . . ."
"Other people manage to do their own housework, you know, Winky,"
"Winky — hic — is not only — hic — doing housework for Mr. Crouch!” Winky squeaked indignantly, swaying worse than ever and slopping butterbeer down her already heavily stained blouse. “Master is — hic — trusting Winky with — hic — the most important — hic — the most secret —"
"What?"
"Winky keeps — hic — her master’s secrets,” she said mutinously, swaying very heavily now, frowning up at Harry with her eyes crossed. “You is — hic — nosing, you is."
"Winky must not talk like that to Harry Potter!” said Dobby angrily. “Harry Potter is brave and noble and Harry Potter is not nosy!"
"He is nosing — hic — into my master’s — hic — private and secret — hic — Winky is a good house-elf — hic — Winky keeps her silence — hic — people trying to — hic — pry and poke — hic —"
"We is sorry you had to see that, sirs and miss!” squeaked a nearby elf, shaking his head and looking very ashamed. “We is hoping you will not judge us all by Winky, sirs and miss!"
"She’s unhappy!” said Hermione, exasperated. “Why don’t you try and cheer her up instead of covering her up?"
"Begging your pardon, miss,” said the house-elf, bowing deeply again, “but house-elves has no right to be unhappy when there is work to be done and masters to be served."
"Oh for heaven’s sake!” Hermione cried. “Listen to me, all of you! You’ve got just as much right as wizards to be unhappy! You’ve got the right to wages and holidays and proper clothes, you don’t have to do everything you’re told — look at Dobby!"
"Miss will please keep Dobby out of this,"
"We has your extra food!” squeaked an elf at Harry’s elbow, and he shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes, and some fruit into Harry’s arms. “Good-bye!"
"Thank you for the socks, Harry Potter!"
"You couldn’t keep your mouth shut, could you, Hermione?” said Ron angrily as the kitchen door slammed shut behind them. “They won’t want us visiting them now! We could’ve tried to get more stuff out of Winky about Crouch!"
"Oh as if you care about that!” scoffed Hermione. “You only like coming down here for the food!"
"Percy won’t’ve had time to answer yet,” said Ron. “We only sent Hedwig yesterday."
"No, it’s not that,” said Hermione. “I’ve taken out a subscription to the Daily Prophet. I’m getting sick of finding everything out from the Slytherins."
"Good thinking!” said Harry, also looking up at the owls. “Hey, Hermione, I think you’re in luck —"
"It hasn’t got a newspaper, though,” she said, looking disappointed. “It’s —"
"How many subscriptions did you take out?"
"What on earth — ?” Hermione said, taking the letter from the gray owl, opening it, and starting to read. “Oh really!"
"What’s up?"
"It’s — oh how ridiculous —"
"They’re all like it!” said Hermione desperately, opening one letter after another. “‘Harry Potter can do much better than the likes of you. . . . ’ ‘You deserve to be boiled in frog spawn. . . . ’ Ouch!"
"Undiluted bubotuber pus!"
"Ow!"
"You’d better get up to the hospital wing,” said Harry as the owls around Hermione took flight. “We’ll tell Professor Sprout where you’ve gone. . . ."
"I warned her!” said Ron as Hermione hurried out of the Great Hall, cradling her hands. “I warned her not to annoy Rita Skeeter! Look at this one . . .” He read out one of the letters Hermione had left behind: “‘I read in Witch Weekly about how you are playing Harry Potter false and that boy has had enough hardship and I will be sending you a curse by next post as soon as I can find a big enough envelope.’ Blimey, she’d better watch out for herself."
"Potter, have you split up with your girlfriend? Why was she so upset at breakfast?"
"These’re nifflers,” said Hagrid, when the class had gathered around. “Yeh find ’em down mines mostly. They like sparkly stuff. . . . There yeh go, look."
"Useful little treasure detectors,” said Hagrid happily. “Thought we’d have some fun with ’em today. See over there?” He pointed at the large patch of freshly turned earth Harry had watched him digging from the Owlery window. “I’ve buried some gold coins. I’ve got a prize fer whoever picks the niffler that digs up most. Jus’ take off all yer valuables, an’ choose a niffler, an’ get ready ter set ’em loose."
"Hang on,” said Hagrid, looking down into the crate, “there’s a spare niffler here . . . who’s missin’? Where’s Hermione?"
"She had to go to the hospital wing,"
"We’ll explain later,"
"Can you buy these as pets, Hagrid?"
"Yer mum wouldn’ be happy, Ron,” said Hagrid, grinning. “They wreck houses, nifflers. I reckon they’ve nearly got the lot, now,” he added, pacing around the patch of earth while the nifflers continued to dive. “I on’y buried a hundred coins. Oh there y’are, Hermione!"
"Well, let’s check how yeh’ve done!” said Hagrid. “Count yer coins! An’ there’s no point tryin’ ter steal any, Goyle,” he added, his beetle-black eyes narrowed. “It’s leprechaun gold. Vanishes after a few hours."
"What yeh done ter your hands, Hermione?"
"Aaah, don’ worry,” said Hagrid gently, looking down at her. “I got some o’ those letters an’ all, after Rita Skeeter wrote abou’ me mum. ‘Yeh’re a monster an’ yeh should be put down.’ ‘Yer mother killed innocent people an’ if you had any decency you’d jump in a lake.’"
"No!"
"Yeah,” said Hagrid, heaving the niffler crates over by his cabin wall. “They’re jus’ nutters, Hermione. Don’ open ’em if yeh get any more. Chuck ’em straigh’ in the fire."
"You missed a really good lesson,” Harry told Hermione as they headed back toward the castle. “They’re good, nifflers, aren’t they, Ron?"
"What’s the matter?” said Harry. “Wrong flavor?"
"No,” said Ron shortly. “Why didn’t you tell me about the gold?"
"What gold?"
"The gold I gave you at the Quidditch World Cup,” said Ron. “The leprechaun gold I gave you for my Omnioculars. In the Top Box. Why didn’t you tell me it disappeared?"
"Oh . . .” he said, the memory coming back to him at last. “I dunno . . . I never noticed it had gone. I was more worried about my wand, wasn’t I?"
"Must be nice,” Ron said abruptly, when they had sat down and started serving themselves roast beef and Yorkshire puddings. “To have so much money you don’t notice if a pocketful of Galleons goes missing."
"Listen, I had other stuff on my mind that night!” said Harry impatiently. “We all did, remember?"
"I didn’t know leprechaun gold vanishes,” Ron muttered. “I thought I was paying you back. You shouldn’t’ve given me that Chudley Cannon hat for Christmas."
"Forget it, all right?"
"I hate being poor."
"It’s rubbish,” said Ron, still glaring down at his potato. “I don’t blame Fred and George for trying to make some extra money. Wish I could. Wish I had a niffler."
"Well, we know what to get you next Christmas,” said Hermione brightly. Then, when Ron continued to look gloomy, she said, “Come on, Ron, it could be worse. At least your fingers aren’t full of pus.” Hermione was having a lot of difficulty managing her knife and fork, her fingers were so stiff and swollen. “I hate that Skeeter woman!” she burst out savagely. “I’ll get her back for this if it’s the last thing I do!"
"It’ll die down, though,” he told Hermione, “if we just ignore it. . . . People got bored with that stuff she wrote about me last time —"
"I want to know how she’s listening into private conversations when she’s supposed to be banned from the grounds!"
"Well, Rita’s definitely not using an Invisibility Cloak!” Hermione panted five minutes later, catching up with Harry and Ron in the entrance hall and pulling Harry’s hand away from one of his wiggling ears so that he could hear her. “Moody says he didn’t see her anywhere near the judges’ table at the second task, or anywhere near the lake!"
"Hermione, is there any point in telling you to drop this?"
"No!” said Hermione stubbornly. “I want to know how she heard me talking to Viktor! And how she found out about Hagrid’s mum!"
"Maybe she had you bugged,"
"Bugged?” said Ron blankly. “What . . . put fleas on her or something?"
"Aren’t you two ever going to read Hogwarts: A History?"
"What’s the point?” said Ron. “You know it by heart, we can just ask you."
"All those substitutes for magic Muggles use — electricity, computers, and radar, and all those things — they all go haywire around Hogwarts, there’s too much magic in the air. No, Rita’s using magic to eavesdrop, she must be. . . . If I could just find out what it is . . . ooh, if it’s illegal, I’ll have her . . ."
"Haven’t we got enough to worry about?” Ron asked her. “Do we have to start a vendetta against Rita Skeeter as well?"
"I’m not asking you to help!” Hermione snapped. “I’ll do it on my own!"
"What’s the betting she comes back with a box of I Hate Rita Skeeter badges?"
"Your mum doesn’t read Witch Weekly, by any chance, does she, Ron?"
"Yeah,” said Ron, whose mouth was full of toffee. “Gets it for the recipes."
"Don’t you want to see what Percy’s written?"
"You are to go down to the Quidditch field tonight at nine o’clock, Potter,” she told him. “Mr. Bagman will be there to tell the champions about the third task."
"What d’you reckon it’s going to be?” he asked Harry as they went together down the stone steps, out into the cloudy night. “Fleur keeps going on about underground tunnels; she reckons we’ve got to find treasure."
"That wouldn’t be too bad,"
"What’ve they done to it?"
"They’re hedges!"
"Hello there!"
"Well, what d’you think?” said Bagman happily as Harry and Cedric climbed over the last hedge. “Growing nicely, aren’t they? Give them a month and Hagrid’ll have them twenty feet high. Don’t worry,” he added, grinning, spotting the less-than-happy expressions on Harry’s and Cedric’s faces, “you’ll have your Quidditch field back to normal once the task is over! Now, I imagine you can guess what we’re making here?"
"Maze,"
"That’s right!” said Bagman. “A maze. The third task’s really very straightforward. The Triwizard Cup will be placed in the center of the maze. The first champion to touch it will receive full marks."
"We seemply ’ave to get through the maze?"
"There will be obstacles,” said Bagman happily, bouncing on the balls of his feet. “Hagrid is providing a number of creatures . . . then there will be spells that must be broken . . . all that sort of thing, you know. Now, the champions who are leading on points will get a head start into the maze.” Bagman grinned at Harry and Cedric. “Then Mr. Krum will enter . . . then Miss Delacour. But you’ll all be in with a fighting chance, depending how well you get past the obstacles. Should be fun, eh?"
"Very well . . . if you haven’t got any questions, we’ll go back up to the castle, shall we, it’s a bit chilly. . . ."
"Could I haff a vord?"
"Yeah, all right,"
"Vill you valk vith me?"
"Okay,"
"I’ll wait for you, Harry, shall I?"
"No, it’s okay, Mr. Bagman,” said Harry, suppressing a smile, “I think I can find the castle on my own, thanks."
"What’re we going this way for?"
"Don’t vont to be overheard,"
"I vant to know,” he said, glowering, “vot there is between you and Hermy-own-ninny."
"Nothing,” he said. But Krum glowered at him, and Harry, somehow struck anew by how tall Krum was, elaborated. “We’re friends. She’s not my girlfriend and she never has been. It’s just that Skeeter woman making things up."
"Hermy-own-ninny talks about you very often,"
"Yeah,” said Harry, “because we’re friends."
"You haff never . . . you haff not . . ."
"No,"
"You fly very vell. I vos votching at the first task."
"Thanks,” said Harry, grinning broadly and suddenly feeling much taller himself. “I saw you at the Quidditch World Cup. The Wronski Feint, you really —"
"Vot is it?"
"Vosn’t he a judge?” said Krum, staring at Mr. Crouch. “Isn’t he vith your Ministry?"
". . . and when you’ve done that, Weatherby, send an owl to Dumbledore confirming the number of Durmstrang students who will be attending the tournament, Karkaroff has just sent word there will be twelve. . . ."
"Mr. Crouch?"
". . . and then send another owl to Madame Maxime, because she might want to up the number of students she’s bringing, now Karkaroff’s made it a round dozen . . . do that, Weatherby, will you? Will you? Will . . ."
"Mr. Crouch?” Harry said loudly. “Are you all right?"
"Vot is wrong with him?"
"No idea,” Harry muttered. “Listen, you’d better go and get someone —"
"Dumbledore!” gasped Mr. Crouch. He reached out and seized a handful of Harry’s robes, dragging him closer, though his eyes were staring over Harry’s head. “I need . . . see . . . Dumbledore. . . ."
"Okay,” said Harry, “if you get up, Mr. Crouch, we can go up to the —"
"I’ve done . . . stupid . . . thing . . .” Mr. Crouch breathed. He looked utterly mad. His eyes were rolling and bulging, and a trickle of spittle was sliding down his chin. Every word he spoke seemed to cost him a terrible effort. “Must . . . tell . . . Dumbledore . . ."
"Get up, Mr. Crouch,” said Harry loudly and clearly. “Get up, I’ll take you to Dumbledore!"
"Who . . . you?"
"I’m a student at the school,"
"You’re not . . . his?"
"No,"
"Dumbledore’s?"
"That’s right,"
"Warn . . . Dumbledore . . ."
"I’ll get Dumbledore if you let go of me,” said Harry. “Just let go, Mr. Crouch, and I’ll get him. . . ."
"Thank you, Weatherby, and when you have done that, I would like a cup of tea. My wife and son will be arriving shortly, we are attending a concert tonight with Mr. and Mrs. Fudge."
"Yes, my son has recently gained twelve O.W.L.s, most satisfactory, yes, thank you, yes, very proud indeed. Now, if you could bring me that memo from the Andorran Minister of Magic, I think I will have time to draft a response. . . ."
"You stay here with him!” Harry said to Krum. “I’ll get Dumbledore, I’ll be quicker, I know where his office is —"
"He is mad,"
"Just stay with him,"
"Don’t . . . leave . . . me!” he whispered, his eyes bulging again. “I . . . escaped . . . must warn . . . must tell . . . see Dumbledore . . . my fault . . . all my fault . . . Bertha . . . dead . . . all my fault . . . my son . . . my fault . . . tell Dumbledore . . . Harry Potter . . . the Dark Lord . . . stronger . . . Harry Potter . . ."
"I’ll get Dumbledore if you let me go, Mr. Crouch!” said Harry. He looked furiously around at Krum. “Help me, will you?"
"Just keep him here,” said Harry, pulling himself free of Mr. Crouch. “I’ll be back with Dumbledore."
"Hurry, von’t you?"
"Lem — lemon drop!"
"Move!” Harry shouted at it. “C’mon!"
"POTTER!"
"What are you doing here, Potter?"
"I need to see Professor Dumbledore!” said Harry, running back up the corridor and skidding to a standstill in front of Snape instead. “It’s Mr. Crouch . . . he’s just turned up . . . he’s in the forest . . . he’s asking —"
"What is this rubbish?” said Snape, his black eyes glittering. “What are you talking about?"
"Mr. Crouch!” Harry shouted. “From the Ministry! He’s ill or something — he’s in the forest, he wants to see Dumbledore! Just give me the password up to —"
"The headmaster is busy, Potter,"
"I’ve got to tell Dumbledore!"
"Didn’t you hear me, Potter?"
"Look,” said Harry angrily, “Crouch isn’t right — he’s — he’s out of his mind — he says he wants to warn —"
"Is there a problem?"
"Professor!” Harry said, sidestepping Snape before Snape could speak, “Mr. Crouch is here — he’s down in the forest, he wants to speak to you!"
"Lead the way,"
"What did Mr. Crouch say, Harry?"
"Said he wants to warn you . . . said he’s done something terrible . . . he mentioned his son . . . and Bertha Jorkins . . . and — and Voldemort . . . something about Voldemort getting stronger. . . ."
"Indeed,"
"He’s not acting normally,” Harry said, hurrying along beside Dumbledore. “He doesn’t seem to know where he is. He keeps talking like he thinks Percy Weasley’s there, and then he changes, and says he needs to see you. . . . I left him with Viktor Krum."
"You did?” said Dumbledore sharply, and he began to take longer strides still, so that Harry was running to keep up. “Do you know if anybody else saw Mr. Crouch?"
"No,” said Harry. “Krum and I were talking, Mr. Bagman had just finished telling us about the third task, we stayed behind, and then we saw Mr. Crouch coming out of the forest —"
"Where are they?"
"Over here,"
"Viktor?"
"They were here,” Harry said to Dumbledore. “They were definitely somewhere around here. . . ."
"Lumos,"
"Stunned,"
"Should I go and get someone?” said Harry. “Madam Pomfrey?"
"No,” said Dumbledore swiftly. “Stay here."
"Rennervate."
"He attacked me!” Krum muttered, putting a hand up to his head. “The old madman attacked me! I vos looking around to see vare Potter had gone and he attacked from behind!"
"Lie still for a moment,"
"Professor Dumbledore!” he said, his eyes widening. “Harry — what the — ?"
"Hagrid, I need you to fetch Professor Karkaroff,” said Dumbledore. “His student has been attacked. When you’ve done that, kindly alert Professor Moody —"
"No need, Dumbledore,” said a wheezy growl. “I’m here."
"Damn leg,” he said furiously. “Would’ve been here quicker . . . what’s happened? Snape said something about Crouch —"
"Crouch?"
"Karkaroff, please, Hagrid!"
"Oh yeah . . . right y’are, Professor . . ."
"I don’t know where Barty Crouch is,” Dumbledore told Moody, “but it is essential that we find him."
"I’m onto it,"
"What is this?” he cried when he saw Krum on the ground and Dumbledore and Harry beside him. “What’s going on?"
"I vos attacked!” said Krum, sitting up now and rubbing his head. “Mr. Crouch or votever his name —"
"Crouch attacked you? Crouch attacked you? The Triwizard judge?"
"Igor,"
"Treachery!” he bellowed, pointing at Dumbledore. “It is a plot! You and your Ministry of Magic have lured me here under false pretenses, Dumbledore! This is not an equal competition! First you sneak Potter into the tournament, though he is underage! Now one of your Ministry friends attempts to put my champion out of action! I smell double-dealing and corruption in this whole affair, and you, Dumbledore, you, with your talk of closer international Wizarding links, of rebuilding old ties, of forgetting old differences — here’s what I think of you!"
"Apologize!"
"Hagrid, no!"
"Kindly escort Harry back up to the castle, Hagrid,"
"Maybe I’d better stay here, Headmaster. . . ."
"You will take Harry back to school, Hagrid,” Dumbledore repeated firmly. “Take him right up to Gryffindor Tower. And Harry — I want you to stay there. Anything you might want to do — any owls you might want to send — they can wait until morning, do you understand me?"
"Er — yes,"
"I’ll leave Fang with yeh, Headmaster,” Hagrid said, staring menacingly at Karkaroff, who was still sprawled at the foot of the tree, tangled in furs and tree roots. “Stay, Fang. C’mon, Harry."
"How dare he,” Hagrid growled as they strode past the lake. “How dare he accuse Dumbledore. Like Dumbledore’d do anythin’ like that. Like Dumbledore wanted you in the tournament in the firs’ place. Worried! I dunno when I seen Dumbledore more worried than he’s bin lately. An’ you!” Hagrid suddenly said angrily to Harry, who looked up at him, taken aback. “What were yeh doin’, wanderin’ off with ruddy Krum? He’s from Durmstrang, Harry! Coulda jinxed yeh right there, couldn’ he? Hasn’ Moody taught yeh nothin’? ’Magine lettin’ him lure yeh off on yer own —"
"Krum’s all right!” said Harry as they climbed the steps into the entrance hall. “He wasn’t trying to jinx me, he just wanted to talk about Hermione —"
"I’ll be havin’ a few words with her, an’ all,” said Hagrid grimly, stomping up the stairs. “The less you lot ’ave ter do with these foreigners, the happier yeh’ll be. Yeh can’ trust any of ’em."
"You were getting on all right with Madame Maxime,"
"Don’ you talk ter me abou’ her!” said Hagrid, and he looked quite frightening for a moment. “I’ve got her number now! Tryin’ ter get back in me good books, tryin’ ter get me ter tell her what’s comin’ in the third task. Ha! You can’ trust any of ’em!"
"Either Mr. Crouch attacked Viktor, or somebody else attacked both of them when Viktor wasn’t looking."
"It must’ve been Crouch,” said Ron at once. “That’s why he was gone when Harry and Dumbledore got there. He’d done a runner."
"I don’t think so,” said Harry, shaking his head. “He seemed really weak — I don’t reckon he was up to Disapparating or anything."
"You can’t Disapparate on the Hogwarts grounds, haven’t I told you enough times?"
"Okay . . . how’s this for a theory,” said Ron excitedly. “Krum attacked Crouch — no, wait for it — and then Stunned himself!"
"And Mr. Crouch evaporated, did he?"
"Oh yeah . . ."
"Just go through it again, Harry,” said Hermione. “What did Mr. Crouch actually say?"
"I’ve told you, he wasn’t making much sense,” said Harry. “He said he wanted to warn Dumbledore about something. He definitely mentioned Bertha Jorkins, and he seemed to think she was dead. He kept saying stuff was his fault. . . . He mentioned his son."
"Well, that was his fault,"
"He was out of his mind,” said Harry. “Half the time he seemed to think his wife and son were still alive, and he kept talking to Percy about work and giving him instructions."
"And . . . remind me what he said about You-Know-Who?"
"I’ve told you,” Harry repeated dully. “He said he’s getting stronger."
"But he was out of his mind, like you said, so half of it was probably just raving. . . ."
"He was sanest when he was trying to talk about Voldemort,” said Harry, and Ron winced at the sound of the name. “He was having real trouble stringing two words together, but that was when he seemed to know where he was, and know what he wanted to do. He just kept saying he had to see Dumbledore."
"If Snape hadn’t held me up,” Harry said bitterly, “we might’ve got there in time. ‘The headmaster is busy, Potter . . . what’s this rubbish, Potter?’ Why couldn’t he have just got out of the way?"
"Maybe he didn’t want you to get there!” said Ron quickly. “Maybe — hang on — how fast d’you reckon he could’ve gotten down to the forest? D’you reckon he could’ve beaten you and Dumbledore there?"
"Not unless he can turn himself into a bat or something,"
"Wouldn’t put it past him,"
"We need to see Professor Moody,” said Hermione. “We need to find out whether he found Mr. Crouch."
"If he had the Marauder’s Map on him, it would’ve been easy,"
"Unless Crouch was already outside the grounds,” said Ron, “because it only shows up to the boundaries, doesn’t —"
"Shh!"
"— that’s blackmail, that is, we could get into a lot of trouble for that —"
"— we’ve tried being polite; it’s time to play dirty, like him. He wouldn’t like the Ministry of Magic knowing what he did —"
"I’m telling you, if you put that in writing, it’s blackmail!"
"Yeah, and you won’t be complaining if we get a nice fat payoff, will you?"
"What’re you doing here?"
"Sending a letter,"
"What, at this time?"
"Fine — we won’t ask you what you’re doing, if you don’t ask us,"
"Well, don’t let us hold you up,"
"Who’re you blackmailing?"
"Don’t be stupid, I was only joking,"
"Didn’t sound like that,"
"I’ve told you before, Ron, keep your nose out if you like it the shape it is. Can’t see why you would, but —"
"It’s my business if you’re blackmailing someone,” said Ron. “George’s right, you could end up in serious trouble for that."
"Told you, I was joking,” said George. He walked over to Fred, pulled the letter out of his hands, and began attaching it to the leg of the nearest barn owl. “You’re starting to sound a bit like our dear older brother, you are, Ron. Carry on like this and you’ll be made a prefect."
"No, I won’t!"
"Well, stop telling people what to do then. See you later."
"You don’t think they know something about all this, do you?” Hermione whispered. “About Crouch and everything?"
"No,” said Harry. “If it was something that serious, they’d tell someone. They’d tell Dumbledore."
"What’s the matter?"
"Well . . .” said Ron slowly, “I dunno if they would. They’re . . . they’re obsessed with making money lately, I noticed it when I was hanging around with them — when — you know —"
"We weren’t talking.” Harry finished the sentence for him. “Yeah, but blackmail . . ."
"It’s this joke shop idea they’ve got,” said Ron. “I thought they were only saying it to annoy Mum, but they really mean it, they want to start one. They’ve only got a year left at Hogwarts, they keep going on about how it’s time to think about their future, and Dad can’t help them, and they need gold to get started."
"Yes, but . . . they wouldn’t do anything against the law to get gold."
"Wouldn’t they?” said Ron, looking skeptical. “I dunno . . . they don’t exactly mind breaking rules, do they?"
"Yes, but this is the law,” said Hermione, looking scared. “This isn’t some silly school rule. . . . They’ll get a lot more than detention for blackmail! Ron . . . maybe you’d better tell Percy. . . ."
"Are you mad?” said Ron. “Tell Percy? He’d probably do a Crouch and turn them in.” He stared at the window through which Fred and George’s owl had departed, then said, “Come on, let’s get some breakfast."
"D’you think it’s too early to go and see Professor Moody?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “He’d probably blast us through the door if we wake him at the crack of dawn; he’ll think we’re trying to attack him while he’s asleep. Let’s give it till break."
"Professor Moody?"
"Hello, Potter,"
"Come in here."
"Did you find him?” Harry asked without preamble. “Mr. Crouch?"
"No,"
"Did you use the map?"
"Of course,” said Moody, taking a swig from his flask. “Took a leaf out of your book, Potter. Summoned it from my office into the forest. He wasn’t anywhere on there."
"So he did Disapparate?"
"You can’t Disapparate on the grounds, Ron!” said Hermione. “There are other ways he could have disappeared, aren’t there, Professor?"
"You’re another one who might think about a career as an Auror,” he told her. “Mind works the right way, Granger."
"Well, he wasn’t invisible,” said Harry. “The map shows invisible people. He must’ve left the grounds, then."
"But under his own steam?” said Hermione eagerly, “or because someone made him?"
"Yeah, someone could’ve — could’ve pulled him onto a broom and flown off with him, couldn’t they?"
"We can’t rule out kidnap,"
"So,” said Ron, “d’you reckon he’s somewhere in Hogsmeade?"
"Could be anywhere,” said Moody, shaking his head. “Only thing we know for sure is that he’s not here."
"Now, Dumbledore’s told me you three fancy yourselves as investigators, but there’s nothing you can do for Crouch. The Ministry’ll be looking for him now, Dumbledore’s notified them. Potter, you just keep your mind on the third task."
"What?” said Harry. “Oh yeah . . ."
"Should be right up your street, this one,” said Moody, looking up at Harry and scratching his scarred and stubbly chin. “From what Dumbledore’s said, you’ve managed to get through stuff like this plenty of times. Broke your way through a series of obstacles guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone in your first year, didn’t you?"
"We helped,” Ron said quickly. “Me and Hermione helped."
"Well, help him practice for this one, and I’ll be very surprised if he doesn’t win,” said Moody. “In the meantime . . . constant vigilance, Potter. Constant vigilance."
"You two,” counseled Moody, his normal eye on Ron and Hermione, “you stick close to Potter, all right? I’m keeping an eye on things, but all the same . . . you can never have too many eyes out."
"Ha! She hasn’t got wind of Crouch!"
"Who’s he, to lecture me about being out-of-bounds?” said Harry in mild indignation as he folded up Sirius’s letter and put it inside his robes. “After all the stuff he did at school!"
"He’s worried about you!” said Hermione sharply. “Just like Moody and Hagrid! So listen to them!"
"No one’s tried to attack me all year,” said Harry. “No one’s done anything to me at all —"
"Except put your name in the Goblet of Fire,” said Hermione. “And they must’ve done that for a reason, Harry. Snuffles is right. Maybe they’ve been biding their time. Maybe this is the task they’re going to get you."
"Look,” said Harry impatiently, “let’s say Sirius is right, and someone Stunned Krum to kidnap Crouch. Well, they would’ve been in the trees near us, wouldn’t they? But they waited till I was out of the way until they acted, didn’t they? So it doesn’t look like I’m their target, does it?"
"They couldn’t have made it look like an accident if they’d murdered you in the forest!” said Hermione. “But if you die during a task —"
"They didn’t care about attacking Krum, did they?” said Harry. “Why didn’t they just polish me off at the same time? They could’ve made it look like Krum and I had a duel or something."
"Harry, I don’t understand it either,” said Hermione desperately. “I just know there are a lot of odd things going on, and I don’t like it. . . . Moody’s right — Sirius is right — you’ve got to get in training for the third task, straight away. And you make sure you write back to Sirius and promise him you’re not going to go sneaking off alone again."
"Can’t we kidnap Mrs. Norris?” Ron suggested on Monday lunchtime as he lay flat on his back in the middle of their Charms classroom, having just been Stunned and reawoken by Harry for the fifth time in a row. “Let’s Stun her for a bit. Or you could use Dobby, Harry, I bet he’d do anything to help you. I’m not complaining or anything” — he got gingerly to his feet, rubbing his backside — “but I’m aching all over. . . ."
"Well, you keep missing the cushions, don’t you!” said Hermione impatiently, rearranging the pile of cushions they had used for the Banishing Spell, which Flitwick had left in a cabinet. “Just try and fall backward!"
"Once you’re Stunned, you can’t aim too well, Hermione!” said Ron angrily. “Why don’t you take a turn?"
"Well, I think Harry’s got it now, anyway,” said Hermione hastily. “And we don’t have to worry about Disarming, because he’s been able to do that for ages. . . . I think we ought to start on some of these hexes this evening."
"I like the look of this one,” she said, “this Impediment Curse. Should slow down anything that’s trying to attack you, Harry. We’ll start with that one."
"See you at dinner!"
"It’s going to be boiling in Trelawney’s room, she never puts out that fire,"
"My dears,” said Professor Trelawney, sitting down in her winged armchair in front of the class and peering around at them all with her strangely enlarged eyes, “we have almost finished our work on planetary divination. Today, however, will be an excellent opportunity to examine the effects of Mars, for he is placed most interestingly at the present time. If you will all look this way, I will dim the lights. . . ."
"You are in luck, Wormtail,” said a cold, high-pitched voice from the depths of the chair in which the owl had landed. “You are very fortunate indeed. Your blunder has not ruined everything. He is dead."
"My Lord!” gasped the man on the floor. “My Lord, I am . . . I am so pleased . . . and so sorry. . . ."
"Nagini,” said the cold voice, “you are out of luck. I will not be feeding Wormtail to you, after all . . . but never mind, never mind . . . there is still Harry Potter. . . ."
"Now, Wormtail,” said the cold voice, “perhaps one more little reminder why I will not tolerate another blunder from you. . . ."
"My Lord . . . no . . . I beg you . . ."
"Crucio!"
"Harry! Harry!"
"You all right?"
"Of course he isn’t!” said Professor Trelawney, looking thoroughly excited. Her great eyes loomed over Harry, gazing at him. “What was it, Potter? A premonition? An apparition? What did you see?"
"Nothing,"
"You were clutching your scar!” said Professor Trelawney. “You were rolling on the floor, clutching your scar! Come now, Potter, I have experience in these matters!"
"I need to go to the hospital wing, I think,” he said. “Bad headache."
"My dear, you were undoubtedly stimulated by the extraordinary clairvoyant vibrations of my room!” said Professor Trelawney. “If you leave now, you may lose the opportunity to see further than you have ever —"
"I don’t want to see anything except a headache cure,"
"See you later,"
"Lemon drop?"
"Okay,” said Harry, staring at it, “Pear Drop. Er — Licorice Wand. Fizzing Whizbee. Drooble’s Best Blowing Gum. Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans . . . oh no, he doesn’t like them, does he? . . . oh just open, can’t you?” he said angrily. “I really need to see him, it’s urgent!"
"Chocolate Frog!” he yelled angrily, standing on one leg. “Sugar Quill! Cockroach Cluster!"
"Cockroach Cluster?” he said, amazed. “I was only joking. . . ."
"Dumbledore, I’m afraid I don’t see the connection, don’t see it at all!” It was the voice of the Minister of Magic, Cornelius Fudge. “Ludo says Bertha’s perfectly capable of getting herself lost. I agree we would have expected to have found her by now, but all the same, we’ve no evidence of foul play, Dumbledore, none at all. As for her disappearance being linked with Barty Crouch’s!"
"And what do you think’s happened to Barty Crouch, Minister?"
"I see two possibilities, Alastor,” said Fudge. “Either Crouch has finally cracked — more than likely, I’m sure you’ll agree, given his personal history — lost his mind, and gone wandering off somewhere —"
"He wandered extremely quickly, if that is the case, Cornelius,"
"Or else — well . . .” Fudge sounded embarrassed. “Well, I’ll reserve judgment until after I’ve seen the place where he was found, but you say it was just past the Beauxbatons carriage? Dumbledore, you know what that woman is?"
"I consider her to be a very able headmistress — and an excellent dancer,"
"Dumbledore, come!” said Fudge angrily. “Don’t you think you might be prejudiced in her favor because of Hagrid? They don’t all turn out harmless — if, indeed, you can call Hagrid harmless, with that monster fixation he’s got —"
"I no more suspect Madame Maxime than Hagrid,” said Dumbledore, just as calmly. “I think it possible that it is you who are prejudiced, Cornelius."
"Can we wrap up this discussion?"
"Yes, yes, let’s go down to the grounds, then,"
"No, it’s not that,” said Moody, “it’s just that Potter wants a word with you, Dumbledore. He’s just outside the door."
"Hello, Potter,” said Moody. “Come in, then."
"Harry!” said Fudge jovially, moving forward. “How are you?"
"Fine,"
"We were just talking about the night when Mr. Crouch turned up on the grounds,” said Fudge. “It was you who found him, was it not?"
"Yes,” said Harry. Then, feeling it was pointless to pretend that he hadn’t overheard what they had been saying, he added, “I didn’t see Madame Maxime anywhere, though, and she’d have a job hiding, wouldn’t she?"
"Yes, well,” said Fudge, looking embarrassed, “we’re about to go for a short walk on the grounds, Harry, if you’ll excuse us . . . perhaps if you just go back to your class —"
"I wanted to talk to you, Professor,"
"Wait here for me, Harry,” he said. “Our examination of the grounds will not take long."
"Hello, Fawkes,"
"Professor!” Harry said in a kind of strangled whisper. “I’m sorry — I didn’t mean to — I was just looking at that basin in your cabinet — I — where are we?"
"Igor Karkaroff,” said a curt voice to Harry’s left. Harry looked around and saw Mr. Crouch standing up in the middle of the bench beside him. Crouch’s hair was dark, his face was much less lined, he looked fit and alert. “You have been brought from Azkaban to present evidence to the Ministry of Magic. You have given us to understand that you have important information for us."
"I have, sir,” he said, and although his voice was very scared, Harry could still hear the familiar unctuous note in it. “I wish to be of use to the Ministry. I wish to help. I — I know that the Ministry is trying to — to round up the last of the Dark Lord’s supporters. I am eager to assist in any way I can. . . ."
"Filth."
"Crouch is going to let him out,” Moody breathed quietly to Dumbledore. “He’s done a deal with him. Took me six months to track him down, and Crouch is going to let him go if he’s got enough new names. Let’s hear his information, I say, and throw him straight back to the dementors."
"Ah, I was forgetting . . . you don’t like the dementors, do you, Albus?"
"No,” said Dumbledore calmly, “I’m afraid I don’t. I have long felt the Ministry is wrong to ally itself with such creatures."
"But for filth like this . . ."
"You say you have names for us, Karkaroff,” said Mr. Crouch. “Let us hear them, please."
"You must understand,” said Karkaroff hurriedly, “that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named operated always in the greatest secrecy. . . . He preferred that we — I mean to say, his supporters — and I regret now, very deeply, that I ever counted myself among them —"
"Get on with it,"
"— we never knew the names of every one of our fellows — He alone knew exactly who we all were —"
"Which was a wise move, wasn’t it, as it prevented someone like you, Karkaroff, from turning all of them in,"
"Yet you say you have some names for us?"
"I — I do,” said Karkaroff breathlessly. “And these were important supporters, mark you. People I saw with my own eyes doing his bidding. I give this information as a sign that I fully and totally renounce him, and am filled with a remorse so deep I can barely —"
"These names are?"
"There was Antonin Dolohov,” he said. “I — I saw him torture countless Muggles and — and non-supporters of the Dark Lord."
"And helped him do it,"
"We have already apprehended Dolohov,” said Crouch. “He was caught shortly after yourself."
"Indeed?” said Karkaroff, his eyes widening. “I — I am delighted to hear it!"
"Any others?"
"Why, yes . . . there was Rosier,” said Karkaroff hurriedly. “Evan Rosier."
"Rosier is dead,” said Crouch. “He was caught shortly after you were too. He preferred to fight rather than come quietly and was killed in the struggle."
"Took a bit of me with him, though,"
"No — no more than Rosier deserved!"
"Any more?"
"Yes!” said Karkaroff. “There was Travers — he helped murder the McKinnons! Mulciber — he specialized in the Imperius Curse, forced countless people to do horrific things! Rookwood, who was a spy, and passed He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named useful information from inside the Ministry itself!"
"Rookwood?” said Mr. Crouch, nodding to a witch sitting in front of him, who began scribbling upon her piece of parchment. “Augustus Rookwood of the Department of Mysteries?"
"The very same,” said Karkaroff eagerly. “I believe he used a network of well-placed wizards, both inside the Ministry and out, to collect information —"
"But Travers and Mulciber we have,” said Mr. Crouch. “Very well, Karkaroff, if that is all, you will be returned to Azkaban while we decide —"
"Not yet!” cried Karkaroff, looking quite desperate. “Wait, I have more!"
"Snape!” he shouted. “Severus Snape!"
"Snape has been cleared by this council,” said Crouch disdainfully. “He has been vouched for by Albus Dumbledore."
"No!” shouted Karkaroff, straining at the chains that bound him to the chair. “I assure you! Severus Snape is a Death Eater!"
"I have given evidence already on this matter,” he said calmly. “Severus Snape was indeed a Death Eater. However, he rejoined our side before Lord Voldemort’s downfall and turned spy for us, at great personal risk. He is now no more a Death Eater than I am."
"Very well, Karkaroff,” Crouch said coldly, “you have been of assistance. I shall review your case. You will return to Azkaban in the meantime. . . ."
"Ludo Bagman, you have been brought here in front of the Council of Magical Law to answer charges relating to the activities of the Death Eaters,” said Mr. Crouch. “We have heard the evidence against you, and are about to reach our verdict. Do you have anything to add to your testimony before we pronounce judgment?"
"Only,” said Bagman, smiling awkwardly, “well — I know I’ve been a bit of an idiot —"
"You never spoke a truer word, boy,” someone muttered dryly to Dumbledore behind Harry. He looked around and saw Moody sitting there again. “If I didn’t know he’d always been dim, I’d have said some of those Bludgers had permanently affected his brain. . . ."
"Ludovic Bagman, you were caught passing information to Lord Voldemort’s supporters,” said Mr. Crouch. “For this, I suggest a term of imprisonment in Azkaban lasting no less than —"
"But I’ve told you, I had no idea!” Bagman called earnestly over the crowd’s babble, his round blue eyes widening. “None at all! Old Rookwood was a friend of my dad’s . . . never crossed my mind he was in with You-Know-Who! I thought I was collecting information for our side! And Rookwood kept talking about getting me a job in the Ministry later on . . . once my Quidditch days are over, you know . . . I mean, I can’t keep getting hit by Bludgers for the rest of my life, can I?"
"It will be put to the vote,” said Mr. Crouch coldly. He turned to the right-hand side of the dungeon. “The jury will please raise their hands . . . those in favor of imprisonment . . ."
"Yes?"
"We’d just like to congratulate Mr. Bagman on his splendid performance for England in the Quidditch match against Turkey last Saturday,"
"Despicable,” Mr. Crouch spat at Dumbledore, sitting down as Bagman walked out of the dungeon. “Rookwood get him a job indeed. . . . The day Ludo Bagman joins us will be a sad day indeed for the Ministry. . . ."
"Bring them in,"
"You have been brought here before the Council of Magical Law,” he said clearly, “so that we may pass judgment on you, for a crime so heinous —"
"Father,” said the boy with the straw-colored hair. “Father . . . please . . ."
"— that we have rarely heard the like of it within this court,” said Crouch, speaking more loudly, drowning out his son’s voice. “We have heard the evidence against you. The four of you stand accused of capturing an Auror — Frank Longbottom — and subjecting him to the Cruciatus Curse, believing him to have knowledge of the present whereabouts of your exiled master, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named —"
"Father, I didn’t!” shrieked the boy in chains below. “I didn’t, I swear it, Father, don’t send me back to the dementors —"
"You are further accused,” bellowed Mr. Crouch, “of using the Cruciatus Curse on Frank Longbottom’s wife, when he would not give you information. You planned to restore He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named to power, and to resume the lives of violence you presumably led while he was strong. I now ask the jury —"
"Mother!” screamed the boy below, and the wispy little witch beside Crouch began to sob, rocking backward and forward. “Mother, stop him, Mother, I didn’t do it, it wasn’t me!"
"I now ask the jury,” shouted Mr. Crouch, “to raise their hands if they believe, as I do, that these crimes deserve a life sentence in Azkaban!"
"No! Mother, no! I didn’t do it, I didn’t do it, I didn’t know! Don’t send me there, don’t let him!"
"The Dark Lord will rise again, Crouch! Throw us into Azkaban; we will wait! He will rise again and will come for us, he will reward us beyond any of his other supporters! We alone were faithful! We alone tried to find him!"
"I’m your son!” he screamed up at Crouch. “I’m your son!"
"You are no son of mine!” bellowed Mr. Crouch, his eyes bulging suddenly. “I have no son!"
"Take them away!” Crouch roared at the dementors, spit flying from his mouth. “Take them away, and may they rot there!"
"Father! Father, I wasn’t involved! No! No! Father, please!"
"I think, Harry, it is time to return to my office,"
"Come,"
"Professor,” Harry gasped, “I know I shouldn’t’ve — I didn’t mean — the cabinet door was sort of open and —"
"I quite understand,"
"What is it?"
"This? It is called a Pensieve,” said Dumbledore. “I sometimes find, and I am sure you know the feeling, that I simply have too many thoughts and memories crammed into my mind."
"Er,"
"At these times,” said Dumbledore, indicating the stone basin, “I use the Pensieve. One simply siphons the excess thoughts from one’s mind, pours them into the basin, and examines them at one’s leisure. It becomes easier to spot patterns and links, you understand, when they are in this form."
"You mean . . . that stuff’s your thoughts?"
"Certainly,” said Dumbledore. “Let me show you."
"It’s coming back . . . Karkaroff’s too . . . stronger and clearer than ever . . ."
"A connection I could have made without assistance,” Dumbledore sighed, “but never mind.” He peered over the top of his half-moon spectacles at Harry, who was gaping at Snape’s face, which was continuing to swirl around the bowl. “I was using the Pensieve when Mr. Fudge arrived for our meeting and put it away rather hastily. Undoubtedly I did not fasten the cabinet door properly. Naturally, it would have attracted your attention."
"I’m sorry,"
"Curiosity is not a sin,” he said. “But we should exercise caution with our curiosity . . . yes, indeed . . ."
"He put a hex on me, Professor Dumbledore, and I was only teasing him, sir, I only said I’d seen him kissing Florence behind the greenhouses last Thursday. . . ."
"But why, Bertha,” said Dumbledore sadly, looking up at the now silently revolving girl, “why did you have to follow him in the first place?"
"Bertha?” Harry whispered, looking up at her. “Is that — was that Bertha Jorkins?"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore, prodding the thoughts in the basin again; Bertha sank back into them, and they became silvery and opaque once more. “That was Bertha as I remember her at school."
"So, Harry,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Before you got lost in my thoughts, you wanted to tell me something."
"Yes,” said Harry. “Professor — I was in Divination just now, and — er — I fell asleep."
"Quite understandable. Continue."
"Well, I had a dream,” said Harry. “A dream about Lord Voldemort. He was torturing Wormtail . . . you know who Wormtail —"
"I do know,” said Dumbledore promptly. “Please continue."
"Voldemort got a letter from an owl. He said something like, Wormtail’s blunder had been repaired. He said someone was dead. Then he said, Wormtail wouldn’t be fed to the snake — there was a snake beside his chair. He said — he said he’d be feeding me to it, instead. Then he did the Cruciatus Curse on Wormtail — and my scar hurt,” Harry said. “It woke me up, it hurt so badly."
"Er — that’s all,"
"I see,” said Dumbledore quietly. “I see. Now, has your scar hurt at any other time this year, excepting the time it woke you up over the summer?"
"No, I — how did you know it woke me up over the summer?"
"You are not Sirius’s only correspondent,” said Dumbledore. “I have also been in contact with him ever since he left Hogwarts last year. It was I who suggested the mountainside cave as the safest place for him to stay."
"Professor?"
"My apologies,"
"D’you — d’you know why my scar’s hurting me?"
"I have a theory, no more than that. . . . It is my belief that your scar hurts both when Lord Voldemort is near you, and when he is feeling a particularly strong surge of hatred."
"But . . . why?"
"Because you and he are connected by the curse that failed,” said Dumbledore. “That is no ordinary scar."
"So you think . . . that dream . . . did it really happen?"
"It is possible,” said Dumbledore. “I would say — probable. Harry — did you see Voldemort?"
"No,” said Harry. “Just the back of his chair. But — there wouldn’t have been anything to see, would there? I mean, he hasn’t got a body, has he? But . . . but then how could he have held the wand?"
"How indeed?” muttered Dumbledore. “How indeed . . ."
"Professor,” Harry said at last, “do you think he’s getting stronger?"
"Voldemort?” said Dumbledore, looking at Harry over the Pensieve. It was the characteristic, piercing look Dumbledore had given him on other occasions, and always made Harry feel as though Dumbledore were seeing right through him in a way that even Moody’s magical eye could not. “Once again, Harry, I can only give you my suspicions."
"The years of Voldemort’s ascent to power,” he said, “were marked with disappearances. Bertha Jorkins has vanished without a trace in the place where Voldemort was certainly known to be last. Mr. Crouch too has disappeared . . . within these very grounds. And there was a third disappearance, one which the Ministry, I regret to say, do not consider of any importance, for it concerns a Muggle. His name was Frank Bryce, he lived in the village where Voldemort’s father grew up, and he has not been seen since last August. You see, I read the Muggle newspapers, unlike most of my Ministry friends."
"These disappearances seem to me to be linked. The Ministry disagrees — as you may have heard, while waiting outside my office."
"Professor?"
"Yes, Harry?"
"Er . . . could I ask you about . . . that court thing I was in . . . in the Pensieve?"
"You could,” said Dumbledore heavily. “I attended it many times, but some trials come back to me more clearly than others . . . particularly now. . . ."
"You know — you know the trial you found me in? The one with Crouch’s son? Well . . . were they talking about Neville’s parents?"
"Has Neville never told you why he has been brought up by his grandmother?"
"Yes, they were talking about Neville’s parents,” said Dumbledore. “His father, Frank, was an Auror just like Professor Moody. He and his wife were tortured for information about Voldemort’s whereabouts after he lost his powers, as you heard."
"So they’re dead?"
"No,” said Dumbledore, his voice full of a bitterness Harry had never heard there before. “They are insane. They are both in St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. I believe Neville visits them, with his grandmother, during the holidays. They do not recognize him."
"The Longbottoms were very popular,” said Dumbledore. “The attacks on them came after Voldemort’s fall from power, just when everyone thought they were safe. Those attacks caused a wave of fury such as I have never known. The Ministry was under great pressure to catch those who had done it. Unfortunately, the Longbottoms’ evidence was — given their condition — none too reliable."
"Then Mr. Crouch’s son might not have been involved?"
"As to that, I have no idea."
"Er,” he said, “Mr. Bagman . . ."
". . . has never been accused of any Dark activity since,"
"Right,” said Harry hastily, staring at the contents of the Pensieve again, which were swirling more slowly now that Dumbledore had stopped adding thoughts. “And . . . er . . ."
"No more has Professor Snape,"
"What made you think he’d really stopped supporting Voldemort, Professor?"
"That, Harry, is a matter between Professor Snape and myself."
"Harry,” he said as Harry reached the door. “Please do not speak about Neville’s parents to anybody else. He has the right to let people know, when he is ready."
"Yes, Professor,"
"And —"
"Good luck with the third task."
"And he trusts Snape?” Ron said. “He really trusts Snape, even though he knows he was a Death Eater?"
"Yes,"
"Rita Skeeter,"
"How can you be worrying about her now?"
"I’m not worrying about her,” Hermione said to her knees. “I’m just thinking . . . remember what she said to me in the Three Broomsticks? ‘I know things about Ludo Bagman that would make your hair curl.’ This is what she meant, isn’t it? She reported his trial, she knew he’d passed information to the Death Eaters. And Winky too, remember . . . ‘Ludo Bagman’s a bad wizard.’ Mr. Crouch would have been furious he got off, he would have talked about it at home."
"Yeah, but Bagman didn’t pass information on purpose, did he?"
"And Fudge reckons Madame Maxime attacked Crouch?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, “but he’s only saying that because Crouch disappeared near the Beauxbatons carriage."
"We never thought of her, did we?” said Ron slowly. “Mind you, she’s definitely got giant blood, and she doesn’t want to admit it —"
"Of course she doesn’t,” said Hermione sharply, looking up. “Look what happened to Hagrid when Rita found out about his mother. Look at Fudge, jumping to conclusions about her, just because she’s part giant. Who needs that sort of prejudice? I’d probably say I had big bones if I knew that’s what I’d get for telling the truth."
"We haven’t done any practicing!” she said, looking shocked. “We were going to do the Impediment Curse! We’ll have to really get down to it tomorrow! Come on, Harry, you need to get some sleep."
"Don’t worry about it,” Hermione said shortly when Harry pointed this out to them and said he didn’t mind practicing on his own for a while, “at least we’ll get top marks in Defense Against the Dark Arts. We’d never have found out about all these hexes in class."
"Good training for when we’re all Aurors,"
"You’re still doing really well, though,” Hermione said encouragingly, looking down her list and crossing off those spells they had already learned. “Some of these are bound to come in handy."
"Come and look at this,” said Ron, who was standing by the window. He was staring down onto the grounds. “What’s Malfoy doing?"
"He looks like he’s using a walkie-talkie,"
"He can’t be,” said Hermione, “I’ve told you, those sorts of things don’t work around Hogwarts. Come on, Harry,” she added briskly, turning away from the window and moving back into the middle of the room, “let’s try that Shield Charm again."
"What?"
"Nothing,” said Hermione quickly, trying to shove the paper out of sight, but Ron grabbed it. He stared at the headline and said, “No way. Not today. That old cow."
"What?” said Harry. “Rita Skeeter again?"
"No,"
"It’s about me, isn’t it?"
"No,"
"Hey, Potter! Potter! How’s your head? You feeling all right? Sure you’re not going to go berserk on us?"
"Let me see it,” Harry said to Ron. “Give it here."
"DISTURBED AND DANGEROUS"
"He might even be pretending,” said one specialist. “This could be a plea for attention."
"Potter can speak Parseltongue,” reveals Draco Malfoy, a Hogwarts fourth year. “There were a lot of attacks on students a couple of years ago, and most people thought Potter was behind them after they saw him lose his temper at a dueling club and set a snake on another boy. It was all hushed up, though. But he’s made friends with werewolves and giants too. We think he’d do anything for a bit of power."
"as worthy of investigation. Personally, I would be highly suspicious of anybody who could converse with snakes, as serpents are often used in the worst kinds of Dark Magic, and are historically associated with evildoers.” Similarly, “anyone who seeks out the company of such vicious creatures as werewolves and giants would appear to have a fondness for violence."
"Gone off me a bit, hasn’t she?"
"How did she know your scar hurt in Divination?” Ron said. “There’s no way she was there, there’s no way she could’ve heard —"
"The window was open,” said Harry. “I opened it to breathe."
"You were at the top of North Tower!” Hermione said. “Your voice couldn’t have carried all the way down to the grounds!"
"Well, you’re the one who’s supposed to be researching magical methods of bugging!” said Harry. “You tell me how she did it!"
"I’ve been trying!” said Hermione. “But I . . . but . . ."
"Are you all right?"
"Yes,"
"I’ve had an idea,” Hermione said, gazing into space. “I think I know . . . because then no one would be able to see . . . even Moody . . . and she’d have been able to get onto the window ledge . . . but she’s not allowed . . . she’s definitely not allowed . . . I think we’ve got her! Just give me two seconds in the library — just to make sure!"
"Oi!” Ron called after her. “We’ve got our History of Magic exam in ten minutes! Blimey,” he said, turning back to Harry, “she must really hate that Skeeter woman to risk missing the start of an exam. What’re you going to do in Binns’s class — read again?"
"S’pose so,"
"Potter, the champions are congregating in the chamber off the Hall after breakfast,"
"But the task’s not till tonight!"
"I’m aware of that, Potter,” she said. “The champions’ families are invited to watch the final task, you know. This is simply a chance for you to greet them."
"She doesn’t expect the Dursleys to turn up, does she?"
"Dunno,” said Ron. “Harry, I’d better hurry, I’m going to be late for Binns. See you later."
"Harry, come on, they’re waiting for you!"
"Surprise!” Mrs. Weasley said excitedly as he smiled broadly and walked over to them. “Thought we’d come and watch you, Harry!"
"You all right?” said Bill, grinning at Harry and shaking his hand. “Charlie wanted to come, but he couldn’t get time off. He said you were incredible against the Horntail."
"This is really nice of you,” Harry muttered to Mrs. Weasley. “I thought for a moment — the Dursleys —"
"Hmm,"
"It’s great being back here,” said Bill, looking around the chamber (Violet, the Fat Lady’s friend, winked at him from her frame). “Haven’t seen this place for five years. Is that picture of the mad knight still around? Sir Cadogan?"
"Oh yeah,"
"And the Fat Lady?"
"She was here in my time,” said Mrs. Weasley. “She gave me such a telling off one night when I got back to the dormitory at four in the morning —"
"What were you doing out of your dormitory at four in the morning?"
"Your father and I had been for a nighttime stroll,” she said. “He got caught by Apollyon Pringle — he was the caretaker in those days — your father’s still got the marks."
"Fancy giving us a tour, Harry?"
"Yeah, okay,"
"There you are, are you?” he said, looking Harry up and down. “Bet you’re not feeling quite as full of yourself now Cedric’s caught you up on points, are you?"
"What?"
"Ignore him,” said Cedric in a low voice to Harry, frowning after his father. “He’s been angry ever since Rita Skeeter’s article about the Triwizard Tournament — you know, when she made out you were the only Hogwarts champion."
"Didn’t bother to correct her, though, did he?” said Amos Diggory, loudly enough for Harry to hear as he started to walk out of the door with Mrs. Weasley and Bill. “Still . . . you’ll show him, Ced. Beaten him once before, haven’t you?"
"Rita Skeeter goes out of her way to cause trouble, Amos!” Mrs. Weasley said angrily. “I would have thought you’d know that, working at the Ministry!"
"How’s Percy?"
"Not good,"
"He’s very upset,” said Mrs. Weasley, lowering her voice and glancing around. “The Ministry wants to keep Mr. Crouch’s disappearance quiet, but Percy’s been hauled in for questioning about the instructions Mr. Crouch has been sending in. They seem to think there’s a chance they weren’t genuinely written by him. Percy’s been under a lot of strain. They’re not letting him fill in for Mr. Crouch as the fifth judge tonight. Cornelius Fudge is going to be doing it."
"Mum — Bill!” said Ron, looking stunned, as he joined the Gryffindor table. “What’re you doing here?"
"Come to watch Harry in the last task!” said Mrs. Weasley brightly. “I must say, it makes a lovely change, not having to cook. How was your exam?"
"Oh . . . okay,” said Ron. “Couldn’t remember all the goblin rebels’ names, so I invented a few. It’s all right,” he said, helping himself to a Cornish pasty, while Mrs. Weasley looked stern, “they’re all called stuff like Bodrod the Bearded and Urg the Unclean; it wasn’t hard."
"Are you going to tell us — ?"
"Hello, Hermione,"
"Hello,"
"Mrs. Weasley, you didn’t believe that rubbish Rita Skeeter wrote in Witch Weekly, did you? Because Hermione’s not my girlfriend."
"Oh!” said Mrs. Weasley. “No — of course I didn’t!"
"Ladies and gentlemen, in five minutes’ time, I will be asking you to make your way down to the Quidditch field for the third and final task of the Triwizard Tournament. Will the champions please follow Mr. Bagman down to the stadium now."
"Feeling all right, Harry?” Bagman asked as they went down the stone steps onto the grounds. “Confident?"
"I’m okay,"
"We are going to be patrolling the outside of the maze,” said Professor McGonagall to the champions. “If you get into difficulty, and wish to be rescued, send red sparks into the air, and one of us will come and get you, do you understand?"
"Off you go, then!"
"Good luck, Harry,” Hagrid whispered, and the four of them walked away in different directions, to station themselves around the maze. Bagman now pointed his wand at his throat, muttered, “Sonorus,"
"Ladies and gentlemen, the third and final task of the Triwizard Tournament is about to begin! Let me remind you how the points currently stand! Tied in first place, with eighty-five points each — Mr. Cedric Diggory and Mr. Harry Potter, both of Hogwarts School!” The cheers and applause sent birds from the Forbidden Forest fluttering into the darkening sky. “In second place, with eighty points — Mr. Viktor Krum, of Durmstrang Institute!” More applause. “And in third place — Miss Fleur Delacour, of Beauxbatons Academy!"
"So . . . on my whistle, Harry and Cedric!” said Bagman. “Three — two — one —"
"Lumos,"
"See you,"
"Point Me,"
"Hagrid’s Blast-Ended Skrewts!” he hissed. “They’re enormous — I only just got away!"
"Expecto Patronum!"
"Hang on!” he shouted, advancing in the wake of his silver Patronus. “You’re a boggart! Riddikulus!"
"Reducto!"
"Fleur?"
"Stupefy!"
"Impedimenta!” Harry yelled. The spell hit the skrewt’s armor again and ricocheted off; Harry staggered back a few paces and fell over. “IMPEDIMENTA!"
"What are you doing?” yelled Cedric’s voice. “What the hell d’you think you’re doing?"
"Crucio!"
"Stupefy!"
"Are you all right?"
"Yeah,” panted Cedric. “Yeah . . . I don’t believe it . . . he crept up behind me. . . . I heard him, I turned around, and he had his wand on me. . . ."
"I can’t believe this . . . I thought he was all right,"
"So did I,"
"Did you hear Fleur scream earlier?"
"Yeah,” said Cedric. “You don’t think Krum got her too?"
"I don’t know,"
"Should we leave him here?"
"No,” said Harry. “I reckon we should send up red sparks. Someone’ll come and collect him . . . otherwise he’ll probably be eaten by a skrewt."
"He’d deserve it,"
"Well . . . I s’pose we’d better go on. . . ."
"What?” said Harry. “Oh . . . yeah . . . right . . ."
"You are very near your goal. The quickest way is past me."
"So . . . so will you move, please?"
"No,” she said, continuing to pace. “Not unless you can answer my riddle. Answer on your first guess — I let you pass. Answer wrongly — I attack. Remain silent — I will let you walk away from me unscathed."
"Okay,” he said. “Can I hear the riddle?"
"Could I have it again . . . more slowly?"
"All the clues add up to a creature I wouldn’t want to kiss?"
"yes."
"A person in disguise,” Harry muttered, staring at her, “who lies . . . er . . . that’d be a — an imposter. No, that’s not my guess! A — a spy? I’ll come back to that . . . could you give me the next clue again, please?"
"‘The last thing to mend,’” Harry repeated. “Er . . . no idea . . . ‘middle of middle’ . . . could I have the last bit again?"
"‘The sound often heard during the search for a hard-to-find word,’” said Harry. “Er . . . that’d be . . . er . . . hang on — ‘er’! Er’s a sound!"
"Spy . . . er . . . spy . . . er . . .” said Harry, pacing up and down. “A creature I wouldn’t want to kiss . . . a spider!"
"Thanks!"
"Point Me!"
"Cedric!” Harry bellowed. “On your left!"
"Stupefy!"
"Stupefy! Impedimenta! Stupefy!"
"Stupefy!” too, but his spell had no more effect than Harry’s — Harry raised his wand as the spider opened its pincers once more and shouted “Expelliarmus!"
"Stupefy!"
"Harry!” he heard Cedric shouting. “You all right? Did it fall on you?"
"No,"
"Take it, then,” Harry panted to Cedric. “Go on, take it. You’re there."
"You take it. You should win. That’s twice you’ve saved my neck in here."
"That’s not how it’s supposed to work,” Harry said. He felt angry; his leg was very painful, he was aching all over from trying to throw off the spider, and after all his efforts, Cedric had beaten him to it, just as he’d beaten Harry to ask Cho to the ball. “The one who reaches the cup first gets the points. That’s you. I’m telling you, I’m not going to win any races on this leg."
"No,"
"Stop being noble,” said Harry irritably. “Just take it, then we can get out of here."
"You told me about the dragons,” Cedric said. “I would’ve gone down in the first task if you hadn’t told me what was coming."
"I had help on that too,” Harry snapped, trying to mop up his bloody leg with his robes. “You helped me with the egg — we’re square."
"I had help on the egg in the first place,"
"We’re still square,"
"You should’ve got more points on the second task,” said Cedric mulishly. “You stayed behind to get all the hostages. I should’ve done that."
"I was the only one who was thick enough to take that song seriously!” said Harry bitterly. “Just take the cup!"
"No,"
"Go on,"
"Both of us,"
"What?"
"We’ll take it at the same time. It’s still a Hogwarts victory. We’ll tie for it."
"You — you sure?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah . . . we’ve helped each other out, haven’t we? We both got here. Let’s just take it together."
"You’re on,” he said. “Come here."
"On three, right?” said Harry. “One — two — three —"
"Where are we?"
"Did anyone tell you the Cup was a Portkey?"
"Nope,” said Harry. He was looking around the graveyard. It was completely silent and slightly eerie. “Is this supposed to be part of the task?"
"I dunno,” said Cedric. He sounded slightly nervous. “Wands out, d’you reckon?"
"Yeah,"
"Someone’s coming,"
"Kill the spare."
"Avada Kedavra!"
"You!"
"Hurry!"
"It is ready, Master."
"Now . . ."
"Bone of the father, unknowingly given, you will renew your son!"
"Flesh — of the servant — w-willingly given — you will — revive — your master."
"B-blood of the enemy . . . forcibly taken . . . you will . . . resurrect your foe."
"Robe me,"
"My Lord . . .” he choked, “my Lord . . . you promised . . . you did promise . . ."
"Hold out your arm,"
"Oh Master . . . thank you, Master . . ."
"The other arm, Wormtail."
"Master, please . . . please . . ."
"It is back,” he said softly, “they will all have noticed it . . . and now, we shall see . . . now we shall know . . ."
"How many will be brave enough to return when they feel it?” he whispered, his gleaming red eyes fixed upon the stars. “And how many will be foolish enough to stay away?"
"You stand, Harry Potter, upon the remains of my late father,” he hissed softly. “A Muggle and a fool . . . very like your dear mother. But they both had their uses, did they not? Your mother died to defend you as a child . . . and I killed my father, and see how useful he has proved himself, in death. . . ."
"He left her and returned to his Muggle parents before I was even born, Potter, and she died giving birth to me, leaving me to be raised in a Muggle orphanage . . . but I vowed to find him . . . I revenged myself upon him, that fool who gave me his name . . . Tom Riddle. . . ."
"Listen to me, reliving family history . . .” he said quietly, “why, I am growing quite sentimental. . . . But look, Harry! My true family returns. . . ."
"Master . . . Master . . ."
"Welcome, Death Eaters,” said Voldemort quietly. “Thirteen years . . . thirteen years since last we met. Yet you answer my call as though it were yesterday. . . . We are still united under the Dark Mark, then! Or are we?"
"I smell guilt,” he said. “There is a stench of guilt upon the air."
"I see you all, whole and healthy, with your powers intact — such prompt appearances! — and I ask myself . . . why did this band of wizards never come to the aid of their master, to whom they swore eternal loyalty?"
"And I answer myself,"
"And I answer myself, perhaps they believed a still greater power could exist, one that could vanquish even Lord Voldemort . . . perhaps they now pay allegiance to another . . . perhaps that champion of commoners, of Mudbloods and Muggles, Albus Dumbledore?"
"It is a disappointment to me . . . I confess myself disappointed. . . ."
"Master!” he shrieked, “Master, forgive me! Forgive us all!"
"Crucio!"
"Get up, Avery,” said Voldemort softly. “Stand up. You ask for forgiveness? I do not forgive. I do not forget. Thirteen long years . . . I want thirteen years’ repayment before I forgive you. Wormtail here has paid some of his debt already, have you not, Wormtail?"
"You returned to me, not out of loyalty, but out of fear of your old friends. You deserve this pain, Wormtail. You know that, don’t you?"
"Yes, Master,” moaned Wormtail, “please, Master . . . please . . ."
"Yet you helped return me to my body,” said Voldemort coolly, watching Wormtail sob on the ground. “Worthless and traitorous as you are, you helped me . . . and Lord Voldemort rewards his helpers. . . ."
"My Lord,” he whispered. “Master . . . it is beautiful . . . thank you . . . thank you. . . . "
"May your loyalty never waver again, Wormtail,"
"No, my Lord . . . never, my Lord . . ."
"Lucius, my slippery friend,” he whispered, halting before him. “I am told that you have not renounced the old ways, though to the world you present a respectable face. You are still ready to take the lead in a spot of Muggle-torture, I believe? Yet you never tried to find me, Lucius. . . . Your exploits at the Quidditch World Cup were fun, I daresay . . . but might not your energies have been better directed toward finding and aiding your master?"
"My Lord, I was constantly on the alert,” came Lucius Malfoy’s voice swiftly from beneath the hood. “Had there been any sign from you, any whisper of your whereabouts, I would have been at your side immediately, nothing could have prevented me —"
"And yet you ran from my Mark, when a faithful Death Eater sent it into the sky last summer?” said Voldemort lazily, and Mr. Malfoy stopped talking abruptly. “Yes, I know all about that, Lucius. . . . You have disappointed me. . . . I expect more faithful service in the future."
"Of course, my Lord, of course. . . . You are merciful, thank you. . . ."
"The Lestranges should stand here,” said Voldemort quietly. “But they are entombed in Azkaban. They were faithful. They went to Azkaban rather than renounce me. . . . When Azkaban is broken open, the Lestranges will be honored beyond their dreams. The dementors will join us . . . they are our natural allies . . . we will recall the banished giants . . . I shall have all my devoted servants returned to me, and an army of creatures whom all fear. . . ."
"Macnair . . . destroying dangerous beasts for the Ministry of Magic now, Wormtail tells me? You shall have better victims than that soon, Macnair. Lord Voldemort will provide. . . ."
"Thank you, Master . . . thank you,"
"And here” — Voldemort moved on to the two largest hooded figures — “we have Crabbe . . . you will do better this time, will you not, Crabbe? And you, Goyle?"
"Yes, Master . . ."
"We will, Master. . . ."
"The same goes for you, Nott,"
"My Lord, I prostrate myself before you, I am your most faithful —"
"That will do,"
"And here we have six missing Death Eaters . . . three dead in my service. One, too cowardly to return . . . he will pay. One, who I believe has left me forever . . . he will be killed, of course . . . and one, who remains my most faithful servant, and who has already reentered my service."
"Yes,” said Voldemort, a grin curling his lipless mouth as the eyes of the circle flashed in Harry’s direction. “Harry Potter has kindly joined us for my rebirthing party. One might go so far as to call him my guest of honor."
"Master, we crave to know . . . we beg you to tell us . . . how you have achieved this . . . this miracle . . . how you managed to return to us. . . ."
"Ah, what a story it is, Lucius,” said Voldemort. “And it begins — and ends — with my young friend here."
"You know, of course, that they have called this boy my downfall?” Voldemort said softly, his red eyes upon Harry, whose scar began to burn so fiercely that he almost screamed in agony. “You all know that on the night I lost my powers and my body, I tried to kill him. His mother died in the attempt to save him — and unwittingly provided him with a protection I admit I had not foreseen. . . . I could not touch the boy."
"His mother left upon him the traces of her sacrifice. . . . This is old magic, I should have remembered it, I was foolish to overlook it . . . but no matter. I can touch him now."
"I remember only forcing myself, sleeplessly, endlessly, second by second, to exist. . . . I settled in a faraway place, in a forest, and I waited. . . . Surely, one of my faithful Death Eaters would try and find me . . . one of them would come and perform the magic I could not, to restore me to a body . . . but I waited in vain. . . ."
"Then . . . four years ago . . . the means for my return seemed assured. A wizard — young, foolish, and gullible — wandered across my path in the forest I had made my home. Oh, he seemed the very chance I had been dreaming of . . . for he was a teacher at Dumbledore’s school . . . he was easy to bend to my will . . . he brought me back to this country, and after a while, I took possession of his body, to supervise him closely as he carried out my orders. But my plan failed. I did not manage to steal the Sorcerer’s Stone. I was not to be assured immortal life. I was thwarted . . . thwarted, once again, by Harry Potter. . . ."
"The servant died when I left his body, and I was left as weak as ever I had been,” Voldemort continued. “I returned to my hiding place far away, and I will not pretend to you that I didn’t then fear that I might never regain my powers. . . . Yes, that was perhaps my darkest hour . . . I could not hope that I would be sent another wizard to possess . . . and I had given up hope, now, that any of my Death Eaters cared what had become of me. . . ."
"She told me that the Triwizard Tournament would be played at Hogwarts this year. She told me that she knew of a faithful Death Eater who would be only too willing to help me, if I could only contact him. She told me many things . . . but the means I used to break the Memory Charm upon her were powerful, and when I had extracted all useful information from her, her mind and body were both damaged beyond repair. She had now served her purpose. I could not possess her. I disposed of her."
"Wormtail’s body, of course, was ill adapted for possession, as all assumed him dead, and would attract far too much attention if noticed. However, he was the able-bodied servant I needed, and, poor wizard though he is, Wormtail was able to follow the instructions I gave him, which would return me to a rudimentary, weak body of my own, a body I would be able to inhabit while awaiting the essential ingredients for true rebirth . . . a spell or two of my own invention . . . a little help from my dear Nagini,"
"Why . . . by using Bertha Jorkins’s information, of course. Use my one faithful Death Eater, stationed at Hogwarts, to ensure that the boy’s name was entered into the Goblet of Fire. Use my Death Eater to ensure that the boy won the tournament — that he touched the Triwizard Cup first — the Cup which my Death Eater had turned into a Portkey, which would bring him here, beyond the reach of Dumbledore’s help and protection, and into my waiting arms. And here he is . . . the boy you all believed had been my downfall. . . ."
"Crucio!"
"You see, I think, how foolish it was to suppose that this boy could ever have been stronger than me,” said Voldemort. “But I want there to be no mistake in anybody’s mind. Harry Potter escaped me by a lucky chance. And I am now going to prove my power by killing him, here and now, in front of you all, when there is no Dumbledore to help him, and no mother to die for him. I will give him his chance. He will be allowed to fight, and you will be left in no doubt which of us is the stronger. Just a little longer, Nagini,"
"Now untie him, Wormtail, and give him back his wand."
"You have been taught how to duel, Harry Potter?"
"Expelliarmus"
"We bow to each other, Harry,” said Voldemort, bending a little, but keeping his snakelike face upturned to Harry. “Come, the niceties must be observed. . . . Dumbledore would like you to show manners. . . . Bow to death, Harry. . . ."
"I said, bow,"
"Very good,"
"And now — we duel."
"A little break,” said Voldemort, the slit-like nostrils dilating with excitement, “a little pause . . . That hurt, didn’t it, Harry? You don’t want me to do that again, do you?"
"I asked you whether you want me to do that again,” said Voldemort softly. “Answer me! Imperio!"
"I WON’T!"
"You won’t?” said Voldemort quietly, and the Death Eaters were not laughing now. “You won’t say no? Harry, obedience is a virtue I need to teach you before you die. . . . Perhaps another little dose of pain?"
"We are not playing hide-and-seek, Harry,” said Voldemort’s soft, cold voice, drawing nearer, as the Death Eaters laughed. “You cannot hide from me. Does this mean you are tired of our duel? Does this mean that you would prefer me to finish it now, Harry? Come out, Harry . . . come out and play, then . . . it will be quick . . . it might even be painless . . . I would not know . . . I have never died. . . ."
"Expelliarmus!” Voldemort cried, “Avada Kedavra!"
"Do nothing!” Voldemort shrieked to the Death Eaters, and Harry saw his red eyes wide with astonishment at what was happening, saw him fighting to break the thread of light still connecting his wand with Harry’s; Harry held onto his wand more tightly, with both hands, and the golden thread remained unbroken. “Do nothing unless I command you!"
"Hold on, Harry,"
"He was a real wizard, then?” the old man said, his eyes on Voldemort. “Killed me, that one did. . . . You fight him, boy. . . ."
"Don’t let go, now!” she cried, and her voice echoed like Cedric’s as though from very far away. “Don’t let him get you, Harry — don’t let go!"
"Your father’s coming. . . .” she said quietly. “Hold on for your father. . . . It will be all right. . . . Hold on. . . ."
"When the connection is broken, we will linger for only moments . . . but we will give you time . . . you must get to the Portkey, it will return you to Hogwarts . . . do you understand, Harry?"
"Yes,"
"Harry . . .” whispered the figure of Cedric, “take my body back, will you? Take my body back to my parents. . . ."
"I will,"
"Do it now,” whispered his father’s voice, “be ready to run . . . do it now. . . ."
"NOW!"
"Stun him!"
"Impedimenta!"
"Stand aside! I will kill him! He is mine!"
"Accio!"
"Harry! Harry!"
"He’s back,” Harry whispered. “He’s back. Voldemort."
"What’s going on? What’s happened?"
"My God — Diggory!” it whispered. “Dumbledore — he’s dead!"
"He’s dead!” “He’s dead!” “Cedric Diggory! Dead!"
"Harry, let go of him,"
"Harry, you can’t help him now. It’s over. Let go."
"He wanted me to bring him back,” Harry muttered — it seemed important to explain this. “He wanted me to bring him back to his parents. . . ."
"That’s right, Harry . . . just let go now. . . ."
"What’s happened?” “What’s wrong with him?” “Diggory’s dead!"
"He’ll need to go to the hospital wing!” Fudge was saying loudly. “He’s ill, he’s injured — Dumbledore, Diggory’s parents, they’re here, they’re in the stands. . . ."
"I’ll take Harry, Dumbledore, I’ll take him —"
"No, I would prefer —"
"Dumbledore, Amos Diggory’s running . . . he’s coming over. . . . Don’t you think you should tell him — before he sees — ?"
"Harry, stay here —"
"It’s all right, son, I’ve got you . . . come on . . . hospital wing . . ."
"Dumbledore said stay,"
"You need to lie down. . . . Come on now. . . ."
"What happened, Harry?"
"Cup was a Portkey,” said Harry as they crossed the entrance hall. “Took me and Cedric to a graveyard . . . and Voldemort was there . . . Lord Voldemort . . ."
"The Dark Lord was there? What happened then?"
"Killed Cedric . . . they killed Cedric. . . ."
"And then?"
"Made a potion . . . got his body back. . . ."
"The Dark Lord got his body back? He’s returned?"
"And the Death Eaters came . . . and then we dueled. . . ."
"You dueled with the Dark Lord?"
"Got away . . . my wand . . . did something funny. . . . I saw my mum and dad . . . they came out of his wand. . . ."
"In here, Harry . . . in here, and sit down. . . . You’ll be all right now . . . drink this. . . ."
"Drink it . . . you’ll feel better . . . come on, now, Harry, I need to know exactly what happened. . . ."
"Voldemort’s back, Harry? You’re sure he’s back? How did he do it?"
"He took stuff from his father’s grave, and from Wormtail, and me,"
"What did the Dark Lord take from you?"
"Blood,"
"And the Death Eaters? They returned?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “Loads of them . . ."
"How did he treat them?” Moody asked quietly. “Did he forgive them?"
"There’s a Death Eater at Hogwarts! There’s a Death Eater here — they put my name in the Goblet of Fire, they made sure I got through to the end —"
"I know who the Death Eater is,"
"Karkaroff?” said Harry wildly. “Where is he? Have you got him? Is he locked up?"
"Karkaroff?” said Moody with an odd laugh. “Karkaroff fled tonight, when he felt the Dark Mark burn upon his arm. He betrayed too many faithful supporters of the Dark Lord to wish to meet them . . . but I doubt he will get far. The Dark Lord has ways of tracking his enemies."
"Karkaroff’s gone? He ran away? But then — he didn’t put my name in the goblet?"
"No,” said Moody slowly. “No, he didn’t. It was I who did that."
"No, you didn’t,” he said. “You didn’t do that . . . you can’t have done . . ."
"I assure you I did,"
"He forgave them, then?” he said. “The Death Eaters who went free? The ones who escaped Azkaban?"
"What?"
"I asked you,” said Moody quietly, “whether he forgave the scum who never even went to look for him. Those treacherous cowards who wouldn’t even brave Azkaban for him. The faithless, worthless bits of filth who were brave enough to cavort in masks at the Quidditch World Cup, but fled at the sight of the Dark Mark when I fired it into the sky."
"You fired . . . What are you talking about . . . ?"
"I told you, Harry . . . I told you. If there’s one thing I hate more than any other, it’s a Death Eater who walked free. They turned their backs on my master when he needed them most. I expected him to punish them. I expected him to torture them. Tell me he hurt them, Harry. . . .” Moody’s face was suddenly lit with an insane smile. “Tell me he told them that I, I alone remained faithful . . . prepared to risk everything to deliver to him the one thing he wanted above all . . . you."
"You didn’t . . . it — it can’t be you. . . ."
"Who put your name in the Goblet of Fire, under the name of a different school? I did. Who frightened off every person I thought might try to hurt you or prevent you from winning the tournament? I did. Who nudged Hagrid into showing you the dragons? I did. Who helped you see the only way you could beat the dragon? I did."
"It hasn’t been easy, Harry, guiding you through these tasks without arousing suspicion. I have had to use every ounce of cunning I possess, so that my hand would not be detectable in your success. Dumbledore would have been very suspicious if you had managed everything too easily. As long as you got into that maze, preferably with a decent head start — then, I knew, I would have a chance of getting rid of the other champions and leaving your way clear. But I also had to contend with your stupidity. The second task . . . that was when I was most afraid we would fail. I was keeping watch on you, Potter. I knew you hadn’t worked out the egg’s clue, so I had to give you another hint —"
"You didn’t,” Harry said hoarsely. “Cedric gave me the clue —"
"So what could I do? Feed you information from another innocent source. You told me at the Yule Ball a house-elf called Dobby had given you a Christmas present. I called the elf to the staffroom to collect some robes for cleaning. I staged a loud conversation with Professor McGonagall about the hostages who had been taken, and whether Potter would think to use gillyweed. And your little elf friend ran straight to Snape’s office and then hurried to find you. . . ."
"You had an easier time of it than you should have in that maze tonight, of course,” said Moody. “I was patrolling around it, able to see through the outer hedges, able to curse many obstacles out of your way. I Stunned Fleur Delacour as she passed. I put the Imperius Curse on Krum, so that he would finish Diggory and leave your path to the Cup clear."
"The Dark Lord didn’t manage to kill you, Potter, and he so wanted to,” whispered Moody. “Imagine how he will reward me when he finds I have done it for him. I gave you to him — the thing he needed above all to regenerate — and then I killed you for him. I will be honored beyond all other Death Eaters. I will be his dearest, his closest supporter . . . closer than a son. . . ."
"The Dark Lord and I,” said Moody, and he looked completely insane now, towering over Harry, leering down at him, “have much in common. Both of us, for instance, had very disappointing fathers . . . very disappointing indeed. Both of us suffered the indignity, Harry, of being named after those fathers. And both of us had the pleasure . . . the very great pleasure . . . of killing our fathers to ensure the continued rise of the Dark Order!"
"You’re mad,” Harry said — he couldn’t stop himself — “you’re mad!"
"Mad, am I?” said Moody, his voice rising uncontrollably. “We’ll see! We’ll see who’s mad, now that the Dark Lord has returned, with me at his side! He is back, Harry Potter, you did not conquer him — and now — I conquer you!"
"Stupefy!"
"Come along, Potter,” she whispered. The thin line of her mouth was twitching as though she was about to cry. “Come along . . . hospital wing . . ."
"No,"
"Dumbledore, he ought to — look at him — he’s been through enough tonight —"
"He will stay, Minerva, because he needs to understand,” said Dumbledore curtly. “Understanding is the first step to acceptance, and only with acceptance can there be recovery. He needs to know who has put him through the ordeal he has suffered tonight, and why."
"Moody,” Harry said. He was still in a state of complete disbelief. “How can it have been Moody?"
"This is not Alastor Moody,” said Dumbledore quietly. “You have never known Alastor Moody. The real Moody would not have removed you from my sight after what happened tonight. The moment he took you, I knew — and I followed."
"Severus, please fetch me the strongest Truth Potion you possess, and then go down to the kitchens and bring up the house-elf called Winky. Minerva, kindly go down to Hagrid’s house, where you will find a large black dog sitting in the pumpkin patch. Take the dog up to my office, tell him I will be with him shortly, then come back here."
"Stunned — controlled by the Imperius Curse — very weak,” he said. “Of course, they would have needed to keep him alive. Harry, throw down the imposter’s cloak — he’s freezing. Madam Pomfrey will need to see him, but he seems in no immediate danger."
"Polyjuice Potion, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “You see the simplicity of it, and the brilliance. For Moody never does drink except from his hip flask, he’s well known for it. The imposter needed, of course, to keep the real Moody close by, so that he could continue making the potion. You see his hair . . .” Dumbledore looked down on the Moody in the trunk. “The imposter has been cutting it off all year, see where it is uneven? But I think, in the excitement of tonight, our fake Moody might have forgotten to take it as frequently as he should have done . . . on the hour . . . every hour. . . . We shall see."
"Crouch!” Snape said, stopping dead in the doorway. “Barty Crouch!"
"Good heavens,"
"Master Barty, Master Barty, what is you doing here?"
"You is killed him! You is killed him! You is killed Master’s son!"
"He is simply Stunned, Winky,” said Dumbledore. “Step aside, please. Severus, you have the potion?"
"Rennervate."
"Can you hear me?"
"Yes,"
"I would like you to tell us,” said Dumbledore softly, “how you came to be here. How did you escape from Azkaban?"
"My mother saved me. She knew she was dying. She persuaded my father to rescue me as a last favor to her. He loved her as he had never loved me. He agreed. They came to visit me. They gave me a draught of Polyjuice Potion containing one of my mother’s hairs. She took a draught of Polyjuice Potion containing one of my hairs. We took on each other’s appearance."
"Say no more, Master Barty, say no more, you is getting your father into trouble!"
"My mother died a short while afterward in Azkaban. She was careful to drink Polyjuice Potion until the end. She was buried under my name and bearing my appearance. Everyone believed her to be me."
"And what did your father do with you, when he had got you home?"
"Staged my mother’s death. A quiet, private funeral. That grave is empty. The house-elf nursed me back to health. Then I had to be concealed. I had to be controlled. My father had to use a number of spells to subdue me. When I had recovered my strength, I thought only of finding my master . . . of returning to his service."
"How did your father subdue you?"
"The Imperius Curse,” Crouch said. “I was under my father’s control. I was forced to wear an Invisibility Cloak day and night. I was always with the house-elf. She was my keeper and caretaker. She pitied me. She persuaded my father to give me occasional treats. Rewards for my good behavior."
"Master Barty, Master Barty,” sobbed Winky through her hands. “You isn’t ought to tell them, we is getting in trouble. . . ."
"Did anybody ever discover that you were still alive?” said Dumbledore softly. “Did anyone know except your father and the house-elf?"
"Yes,” said Crouch, his eyelids flickering again. “A witch in my father’s office. Bertha Jorkins. She came to the house with papers for my father’s signature. He was not at home. Winky showed her inside and returned to the kitchen, to me. But Bertha Jorkins heard Winky talking to me. She came to investigate. She heard enough to guess who was hiding under the Invisibility Cloak. My father arrived home. She confronted him. He put a very powerful Memory Charm on her to make her forget what she’d found out. Too powerful. He said it damaged her memory permanently."
"Why is she coming to nose into my master’s private business?” sobbed Winky. “Why isn’t she leaving us be?"
"Tell me about the Quidditch World Cup,"
"Winky talked my father into it,"
"But Winky didn’t know that I was growing stronger. I was starting to fight my father’s Imperius Curse. There were times when I was almost myself again. There were brief periods when I seemed outside his control. It happened, there, in the Top Box. It was like waking from a deep sleep. I found myself out in public, in the middle of the match, and I saw, in front of me, a wand sticking out of a boy’s pocket. I had not been allowed a wand since before Azkaban. I stole it. Winky didn’t know. Winky is frightened of heights. She had her face hidden."
"Master Barty, you bad boy!"
"So you took the wand,” said Dumbledore, “and what did you do with it?"
"We went back to the tent,"
"When Winky was discovered, my father knew I must be nearby. He searched the bushes where she had been found and felt me lying there. He waited until the other Ministry members had left the forest. He put me back under the Imperius Curse and took me home. He dismissed Winky. She had failed him. She had let me acquire a wand. She had almost let me escape."
"Now it was just Father and I, alone in the house. And then . . . and then . . ."
"He arrived at our house late one night in the arms of his servant Wormtail. My master had found out that I was still alive. He had captured Bertha Jorkins in Albania. He had tortured her. She told him a great deal. She told him about the Triwizard Tournament. She told him the old Auror, Moody, was going to teach at Hogwarts. He tortured her until he broke through the Memory Charm my father had placed upon her. She told him I had escaped from Azkaban. She told him my father kept me imprisoned to prevent me from seeking my master. And so my master knew that I was still his faithful servant — perhaps the most faithful of all. My master conceived a plan, based upon the information Bertha had given him. He needed me. He arrived at our house near midnight. My father answered the door."
"It was very quick. My father was placed under the Imperius Curse by my master. Now my father was the one imprisoned, controlled. My master forced him to go about his business as usual, to act as though nothing was wrong. And I was released. I awoke. I was myself again, alive as I hadn’t been in years."
"And what did Lord Voldemort ask you to do?"
"He asked me whether I was ready to risk everything for him. I was ready. It was my dream, my greatest ambition, to serve him, to prove myself to him. He told me he needed to place a faithful servant at Hogwarts. A servant who would guide Harry Potter through the Triwizard Tournament without appearing to do so. A servant who would watch over Harry Potter. Ensure he reached the Triwizard Cup. Turn the Cup into a Portkey, which would take the first person to touch it to my master. But first —"
"You needed Alastor Moody,"
"Wormtail and I did it. We had prepared the Polyjuice Potion beforehand. We journeyed to his house. Moody put up a struggle. There was a commotion. We managed to subdue him just in time. Forced him into a compartment of his own magical trunk. Took some of his hair and added it to the potion. I drank it; I became Moody’s double. I took his leg and his eye. I was ready to face Arthur Weasley when he arrived to sort out the Muggles who had heard a disturbance. I made the dustbins move around the yard. I told Arthur Weasley I had heard intruders in my yard, who had set off the dustbins. Then I packed up Moody’s clothes and Dark Detectors, put them in the trunk with Moody, and set off for Hogwarts. I kept him alive, under the Imperius Curse. I wanted to be able to question him. To find out about his past, learn his habits, so that I could fool even Dumbledore. I also needed his hair to make the Polyjuice Potion. The other ingredients were easy. I stole boomslang skin from the dungeons. When the Potions master found me in his office, I said I was under orders to search it."
"And what became of Wormtail after you attacked Moody?"
"Wormtail returned to care for my master, in my father’s house, and to keep watch over my father."
"But your father escaped,"
"My master sent me word of my father’s escape. He told me to stop him at all costs. So I waited and watched. I used the map I had taken from Harry Potter. The map that had almost ruined everything."
"Map?” said Dumbledore quickly. “What map is this?"
"For a week I waited for my father to arrive at Hogwarts. At last, one evening, the map showed my father entering the grounds. I pulled on my Invisibility Cloak and went down to meet him. He was walking around the edge of the forest. Then Potter came, and Krum. I waited. I could not hurt Potter; my master needed him. Potter ran to get Dumbledore. I Stunned Krum. I killed my father."
"Noooo!” wailed Winky. “Master Barty, Master Barty, what is you saying?"
"You killed your father,” Dumbledore said, in the same soft voice. “What did you do with the body?"
"Dumbledore told me to go and look for my father. I went back to my father’s body. Watched the map. When everyone was gone, I Transfigured my father’s body. He became a bone . . . I buried it, while wearing the Invisibility Cloak, in the freshly dug earth in front of Hagrid’s cabin."
"And tonight . . ."
"I offered to carry the Triwizard Cup into the maze before dinner,” whispered Barty Crouch. “Turned it into a Portkey. My master’s plan worked. He is returned to power and I will be honored by him beyond the dreams of wizards."
"Minerva, could I ask you to stand guard here while I take Harry upstairs?"
"Of course,"
"Severus” — Dumbledore turned to Snape — “please tell Madam Pomfrey to come down here; we need to get Alastor Moody into the hospital wing. Then go down into the grounds, find Cornelius Fudge, and bring him up to this office. He will undoubtedly want to question Crouch himself. Tell him I will be in the hospital wing in half an hour’s time if he needs me."
"Harry?"
"I want you to come up to my office first, Harry,” he said quietly as they headed up the passageway. “Sirius is waiting for us there."
"Professor,” Harry mumbled, “where are Mr. and Mrs. Diggory?"
"They are with Professor Sprout,” said Dumbledore. His voice, which had been so calm throughout the interrogation of Barty Crouch, shook very slightly for the first time. “She was Head of Cedric’s House, and knew him best."
"Harry, are you all right? I knew it — I knew something like this — what happened?"
"What happened?"
"’Lo, Fawkes,"
"I need to know what happened after you touched the Portkey in the maze, Harry,"
"We can leave that till morning, can’t we, Dumbledore?” said Sirius harshly. He had put a hand on Harry’s shoulder. “Let him have a sleep. Let him rest."
"If I thought I could help you,” Dumbledore said gently, “by putting you into an enchanted sleep and allowing you to postpone the moment when you would have to think about what has happened tonight, I would do it. But I know better. Numbing the pain for a while will make it worse when you finally feel it. You have shown bravery beyond anything I could have expected of you. I ask you to demonstrate your courage one more time. I ask you to tell us what happened."
"He said my blood would make him stronger than if he’d used someone else’s,” Harry told Dumbledore. “He said the protection my — my mother left in me — he’d have it too. And he was right — he could touch me without hurting himself, he touched my face."
"Very well,” he said, sitting down again. “Voldemort has overcome that particular barrier. Harry, continue, please."
"The wands connected?” he said, looking from Harry to Dumbledore. “Why?"
"Priori Incantatem,"
"The Reverse Spell effect?"
"Exactly,” said Dumbledore. “Harry’s wand and Voldemort’s wand share cores. Each of them contains a feather from the tail of the same phoenix. This phoenix, in fact,"
"My wand’s feather came from Fawkes?"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore. “Mr. Ollivander wrote to tell me you had bought the second wand, the moment you left his shop four years ago."
"So what happens when a wand meets its brother?"
"They will not work properly against each other,” said Dumbledore. “If, however, the owners of the wands force the wands to do battle . . . a very rare effect will take place. One of the wands will force the other to regurgitate spells it has performed — in reverse. The most recent first . . . and then those which preceded it. . . ."
"Which means,” said Dumbledore slowly, his eyes upon Harry’s face, “that some form of Cedric must have reappeared."
"Diggory came back to life?"
"No spell can reawaken the dead,” said Dumbledore heavily. “All that would have happened is a kind of reverse echo. A shadow of the living Cedric would have emerged from the wand . . . am I correct, Harry?"
"He spoke to me,” Harry said. He was suddenly shaking again. “The . . . the ghost Cedric, or whatever he was, spoke."
"An echo,” said Dumbledore, “which retained Cedric’s appearance and character. I am guessing other such forms appeared . . . less recent victims of Voldemort’s wand. . . ."
"An old man,” Harry said, his throat still constricted. “Bertha Jorkins. And . . ."
"Your parents?"
"Yes,"
"The last murders the wand performed,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “In reverse order. More would have appeared, of course, had you maintained the connection. Very well, Harry, these echoes, these shadows . . . what did they do?"
"I will say it again,” said Dumbledore as the phoenix rose into the air and resettled itself upon the perch beside the door. “You have shown bravery beyond anything I could have expected of you tonight, Harry. You have shown bravery equal to those who died fighting Voldemort at the height of his powers. You have shouldered a grown wizard’s burden and found yourself equal to it — and you have now given us all that we have a right to expect. You will come with me to the hospital wing. I do not want you returning to the dormitory tonight. A Sleeping Potion, and some peace . . . Sirius, would you like to stay with him?"
"Harry! Oh Harry!"
"Molly,” he said, holding up a hand, “please listen to me for a moment. Harry has been through a terrible ordeal tonight. He has just had to relive it for me. What he needs now is sleep, and peace, and quiet. If he would like you all to stay with him,” he added, looking around at Ron, Hermione, and Bill too, “you may do so. But I do not want you questioning him until he is ready to answer, and certainly not this evening."
"Did you hear? He needs quiet!"
"Headmaster,” said Madam Pomfrey, staring at the great black dog that was Sirius, “may I ask what — ?"
"This dog will be remaining with Harry for a while,” said Dumbledore simply. “I assure you, he is extremely well trained. Harry — I will wait while you get into bed."
"I will be back to see you as soon as I have met with Fudge, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “I would like you to remain here tomorrow until I have spoken to the school."
"Is he okay?"
"He’ll be fine,"
"I’m all right,” he told them. “Just tired."
"You’ll need to drink all of this, Harry,” she said. “It’s a potion for dreamless sleep."
"They’ll wake him if they don’t shut up!"
"What are they shouting about? Nothing else can have happened, can it?"
"That’s Fudge’s voice,” she whispered. “And that’s Minerva McGonagall’s, isn’t it? But what are they arguing about?"
"Regrettable, but all the same, Minerva —"
"You should never have brought it inside the castle!” yelled Professor McGonagall. “When Dumbledore finds out —"
"Where’s Dumbledore?"
"He’s not here,” said Mrs. Weasley angrily. “This is a hospital wing, Minister, don’t you think you’d do better to —"
"What has happened?” said Dumbledore sharply, looking from Fudge to Professor McGonagall. “Why are you disturbing these people? Minerva, I’m surprised at you — I asked you to stand guard over Barty Crouch —"
"There is no need to stand guard over him anymore, Dumbledore!” she shrieked. “The Minister has seen to that!"
"When we told Mr. Fudge that we had caught the Death Eater responsible for tonight’s events,” said Snape, in a low voice, “he seemed to feel his personal safety was in question. He insisted on summoning a dementor to accompany him into the castle. He brought it up to the office where Barty Crouch —"
"I told him you would not agree, Dumbledore!” Professor McGonagall fumed. “I told him you would never allow dementors to set foot inside the castle, but —"
"My dear woman!” roared Fudge, who likewise looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him, “as Minister of Magic, it is my decision whether I wish to bring protection with me when interviewing a possibly dangerous —"
"The moment that — that thing entered the room,” she screamed, pointing at Fudge, trembling all over, “it swooped down on Crouch and — and —"
"By all accounts, he is no loss!” blustered Fudge. “It seems he has been responsible for several deaths!"
"But he cannot now give testimony, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore. He was staring hard at Fudge, as though seeing him plainly for the first time. “He cannot give evidence about why he killed those people."
"Why he killed them? Well, that’s no mystery, is it?” blustered Fudge. “He was a raving lunatic! From what Minerva and Severus have told me, he seems to have thought he was doing it all on You-Know-Who’s instructions!"
"Lord Voldemort was giving him instructions, Cornelius,” Dumbledore said. “Those people’s deaths were mere by-products of a plan to restore Voldemort to full strength again. The plan succeeded. Voldemort has been restored to his body."
"You-Know-Who . . . returned? Preposterous. Come now, Dumbledore . . ."
"As Minerva and Severus have doubtless told you,” said Dumbledore, “we heard Barty Crouch confess. Under the influence of Veritaserum, he told us how he was smuggled out of Azkaban, and how Voldemort — learning of his continued existence from Bertha Jorkins — went to free him from his father and used him to capture Harry. The plan worked, I tell you. Crouch has helped Voldemort to return."
"See here, Dumbledore,” said Fudge, and Harry was astonished to see a slight smile dawning on his face, “you — you can’t seriously believe that. You-Know-Who — back? Come now, come now . . . certainly, Crouch may have believed himself to be acting upon You-Know-Who’s orders — but to take the word of a lunatic like that, Dumbledore . . ."
"When Harry touched the Triwizard Cup tonight, he was transported straight to Voldemort,” said Dumbledore steadily. “He witnessed Lord Voldemort’s rebirth. I will explain it all to you if you will step up to my office."
"I am afraid I cannot permit you to question Harry tonight."
"You are — er — prepared to take Harry’s word on this, are you, Dumbledore?"
"Certainly, I believe Harry,” said Dumbledore. His eyes were blazing now. “I heard Crouch’s confession, and I heard Harry’s account of what happened after he touched the Triwizard Cup; the two stories make sense, they explain everything that has happened since Bertha Jorkins disappeared last summer."
"You are prepared to believe that Lord Voldemort has returned, on the word of a lunatic murderer, and a boy who . . . well . . ."
"You’ve been reading Rita Skeeter, Mr. Fudge,"
"And if I have?” he said, looking at Dumbledore. “If I have discovered that you’ve been keeping certain facts about the boy very quiet? A Parselmouth, eh? And having funny turns all over the place —"
"I assume that you are referring to the pains Harry has been experiencing in his scar?"
"You admit that he has been having these pains, then?” said Fudge quickly. “Headaches? Nightmares? Possibly — hallucinations?"
"Listen to me, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, taking a step toward Fudge, and once again, he seemed to radiate that indefinable sense of power that Harry had felt after Dumbledore had Stunned young Crouch. “Harry is as sane as you or I. That scar upon his forehead has not addled his brains. I believe it hurts him when Lord Voldemort is close by, or feeling particularly murderous."
"You’ll forgive me, Dumbledore, but I’ve never heard of a curse scar acting as an alarm bell before. . . ."
"Look, I saw Voldemort come back!” Harry shouted. He tried to get out of bed again, but Mrs. Weasley forced him back. “I saw the Death Eaters! I can give you their names! Lucius Malfoy —"
"Malfoy was cleared!” said Fudge, visibly affronted. “A very old family — donations to excellent causes —"
"Macnair!"
"Also cleared! Now working for the Ministry!"
"Avery — Nott — Crabbe — Goyle —"
"You are merely repeating the names of those who were acquitted of being Death Eaters thirteen years ago!” said Fudge angrily. “You could have found those names in old reports of the trials! For heaven’s sake, Dumbledore — the boy was full of some crackpot story at the end of last year too — his tales are getting taller, and you’re still swallowing them — the boy can talk to snakes, Dumbledore, and you still think he’s trustworthy?"
"You fool!” Professor McGonagall cried. “Cedric Diggory! Mr. Crouch! These deaths were not the random work of a lunatic!"
"I see no evidence to the contrary!” shouted Fudge, now matching her anger, his face purpling. “It seems to me that you are all determined to start a panic that will destabilize everything we have worked for these last thirteen years!"
"Voldemort has returned,” Dumbledore repeated. “If you accept that fact straightaway, Fudge, and take the necessary measures, we may still be able to save the situation. The first and most essential step is to remove Azkaban from the control of the dementors —"
"Preposterous!” shouted Fudge again. “Remove the dementors? I’d be kicked out of office for suggesting it! Half of us only feel safe in our beds at night because we know the dementors are standing guard at Azkaban!"
"The rest of us sleep less soundly in our beds, Cornelius, knowing that you have put Lord Voldemort’s most dangerous supporters in the care of creatures who will join him the instant he asks them!” said Dumbledore. “They will not remain loyal to you, Fudge! Voldemort can offer them much more scope for their powers and their pleasures than you can! With the dementors behind him, and his old supporters returned to him, you will be hard-pressed to stop him regaining the sort of power he had thirteen years ago!"
"The second step you must take — and at once,” Dumbledore pressed on, “is to send envoys to the giants."
"Envoys to the giants?” Fudge shrieked, finding his tongue again. “What madness is this?"
"Extend them the hand of friendship, now, before it is too late,” said Dumbledore, “or Voldemort will persuade them, as he did before, that he alone among wizards will give them their rights and their freedom!"
"You — you cannot be serious!” Fudge gasped, shaking his head and retreating further from Dumbledore. “If the magical community got wind that I had approached the giants — people hate them, Dumbledore — end of my career —"
"You are blinded,” said Dumbledore, his voice rising now, the aura of power around him palpable, his eyes blazing once more, “by the love of the office you hold, Cornelius! You place too much importance, and you always have done, on the so-called purity of blood! You fail to recognize that it matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be! Your dementor has just destroyed the last remaining member of a pure-blood family as old as any — and see what that man chose to make of his life! I tell you now — take the steps I have suggested, and you will be remembered, in office or out, as one of the bravest and greatest Ministers of Magic we have ever known. Fail to act — and history will remember you as the man who stepped aside and allowed Voldemort a second chance to destroy the world we have tried to rebuild!"
"Insane,” whispered Fudge, still backing away. “Mad . . ."
"If your determination to shut your eyes will carry you as far as this, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, “we have reached a parting of the ways. You must act as you see fit. And I — I shall act as I see fit."
"Now, see here, Dumbledore,” he said, waving a threatening finger. “I’ve given you free rein, always. I’ve had a lot of respect for you. I might not have agreed with some of your decisions, but I’ve kept quiet. There aren’t many who’d have let you hire werewolves, or keep Hagrid, or decide what to teach your students without reference to the Ministry. But if you’re going to work against me —"
"The only one against whom I intend to work,” said Dumbledore, “is Lord Voldemort. If you are against him, then we remain, Cornelius, on the same side."
"He can’t be back, Dumbledore, he just can’t be . . ."
"There,” said Snape harshly. “There. The Dark Mark. It is not as clear as it was an hour or so ago, when it burned black, but you can still see it. Every Death Eater had the sign burned into him by the Dark Lord. It was a means of distinguishing one another, and his means of summoning us to him. When he touched the Mark of any Death Eater, we were to Disapparate, and Apparate, instantly, at his side. This Mark has been growing clearer all year. Karkaroff’s too. Why do you think Karkaroff fled tonight? We both felt the Mark burn. We both knew he had returned. Karkaroff fears the Dark Lord’s vengeance. He betrayed too many of his fellow Death Eaters to be sure of a welcome back into the fold."
"I don’t know what you and your staff are playing at, Dumbledore, but I have heard enough. I have no more to add. I will be in touch with you tomorrow, Dumbledore, to discuss the running of this school. I must return to the Ministry."
"Your winnings,” he said shortly, taking a large bag of gold out of his pocket and dropping it onto Harry’s bedside table. “One thousand Galleons. There should have been a presentation ceremony, but under the circumstances . . ."
"There is work to be done,” he said. “Molly . . . am I right in thinking that I can count on you and Arthur?"
"Of course you can,” said Mrs. Weasley. She was white to the lips, but she looked resolute. “We know what Fudge is. It’s Arthur’s fondness for Muggles that has held him back at the Ministry all these years. Fudge thinks he lacks proper Wizarding pride."
"Then I need to send a message to Arthur,” said Dumbledore. “All those that we can persuade of the truth must be notified immediately, and he is well placed to contact those at the Ministry who are not as shortsighted as Cornelius."
"I’ll go to Dad,” said Bill, standing up. “I’ll go now."
"Excellent,” said Dumbledore. “Tell him what has happened. Tell him I will be in direct contact with him shortly. He will need to be discreet, however. If Fudge thinks I am interfering at the Ministry —"
"Leave it to me,"
"Minerva,” said Dumbledore, turning to Professor McGonagall, “I want to see Hagrid in my office as soon as possible. Also — if she will consent to come — Madame Maxime."
"Poppy,” Dumbledore said to Madam Pomfrey, “would you be very kind and go down to Professor Moody’s office, where I think you will find a house-elf called Winky in considerable distress? Do what you can for her, and take her back to the kitchens. I think Dobby will look after her for us."
"Very — very well,"
"And now,” he said, “it is time for two of our number to recognize each other for what they are. Sirius . . . if you could resume your usual form."
"Sirius Black!"
"Mum, shut up!” Ron yelled. “It’s okay!"
"Him!” he snarled, staring at Sirius, whose face showed equal dislike. “What is he doing here?"
"He is here at my invitation,” said Dumbledore, looking between them, “as are you, Severus. I trust you both. It is time for you to lay aside your old differences and trust each other."
"I will settle, in the short term,” said Dumbledore, with a bite of impatience in his voice, “for a lack of open hostility. You will shake hands. You are on the same side now. Time is short, and unless the few of us who know the truth stand united, there is no hope for any of us."
"That will do to be going on with,” said Dumbledore, stepping between them once more. “Now I have work for each of you. Fudge’s attitude, though not unexpected, changes everything. Sirius, I need you to set off at once. You are to alert Remus Lupin, Arabella Figg, Mundungus Fletcher — the old crowd. Lie low at Lupin’s for a while; I will contact you there."
"But —"
"You’ll see me very soon, Harry,” said Sirius, turning to him. “I promise you. But I must do what I can, you understand, don’t you?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah . . . of course I do."
"Severus,” said Dumbledore, turning to Snape, “you know what I must ask you to do. If you are ready . . . if you are prepared . . ."
"I am,"
"Then good luck,"
"I must go downstairs,” he said finally. “I must see the Diggorys. Harry — take the rest of your potion. I will see all of you later."
"You’ve got to take the rest of your potion, Harry,” Mrs. Weasley said at last. Her hand nudged the sack of gold on his bedside cabinet as she reached for the bottle and the goblet. “You have a good long sleep. Try and think about something else for a while . . . think about what you’re going to buy with your winnings!"
"I don’t want that gold,” said Harry in an expressionless voice. “You have it. Anyone can have it. I shouldn’t have won it. It should’ve been Cedric’s."
"It wasn’t your fault, Harry,"
"I told him to take the Cup with me,"
"Sorry,"
"Your potion, Harry,"
"He suffered very little then,” she said, when Harry had told her how Cedric had died. “And after all, Amos . . . he died just when he’d won the tournament. He must have been happy."
"You look after yourself, now."
"You take this,” he muttered to her. “It should’ve been Cedric’s, he got there first, you take it —"
"Oh no, it’s yours, dear, I couldn’t . . . you keep it."
"She went to ask him if you could come straight to us this summer,” he said. “But he wants you to go back to the Dursleys, at least at first."
"Why?"
"She said Dumbledore’s got his reasons,” said Ron, shaking his head darkly. “I suppose we’ve got to trust him, haven’t we?"
"Who’s that?” called Hagrid, coming to the door. “Harry!"
"Good ter see yeh, mate. Good ter see yeh."
"Bin havin’ a cuppa with Olympe,” Hagrid said. “She’s jus’ left."
"Who?"
"Madame Maxime, o’ course!"
"You two made up, have you?"
"Dunno what yeh’re talkin’ about,"
"You all righ’?"
"Yeah,"
"No, yeh’re not,” said Hagrid. “’Course yeh’re not. But yeh will be."
"Knew he was goin’ ter come back,” said Hagrid, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up at him, shocked. “Known it fer years, Harry. Knew he was out there, bidin’ his time. It had ter happen. Well, now it has, an’ we’ll jus’ have ter get on with it. We’ll fight. Migh’ be able ter stop him before he gets a good hold. That’s Dumbledore’s plan, anyway. Great man, Dumbledore. ’S long as we’ve got him, I’m not too worried."
"No good sittin’ worryin’ abou’ it,” he said. “What’s comin’ will come, an’ we’ll meet it when it does. Dumbledore told me wha’ you did, Harry."
"Yeh did as much as yer father would’ve done, an’ I can’ give yeh no higher praise than that."
"What’s Dumbledore asked you to do, Hagrid?” he asked. “He sent Professor McGonagall to ask you and Madame Maxime to meet him — that night."
"Got a little job fer me over the summer,” said Hagrid. “Secret, though. I’m not s’pposed ter talk abou’ it, no, not even ter you lot. Olympe — Madame Maxime ter you — might be comin’ with me. I think she will. Think I got her persuaded."
"Is it to do with Voldemort?"
"Migh’ be,” he said evasively. “Now . . . who’d like ter come an’ visit the las’ skrewt with me? I was jokin’ — jokin’!"
"at great personal risk."
"The end,” said Dumbledore, looking around at them all, “of another year."
"There is much that I would like to say to you all tonight,” said Dumbledore, “but I must first acknowledge the loss of a very fine person, who should be sitting here,” he gestured toward the Hufflepuffs, “enjoying our feast with us. I would like you all, please, to stand, and raise your glasses, to Cedric Diggory."
"Cedric Diggory."
"Cedric was a person who exemplified many of the qualities that distinguish Hufflepuff House,” Dumbledore continued. “He was a good and loyal friend, a hard worker, he valued fair play. His death has affected you all, whether you knew him well or not. I think that you have the right, therefore, to know exactly how it came about."
"Cedric Diggory was murdered by Lord Voldemort."
"The Ministry of Magic,” Dumbledore continued, “does not wish me to tell you this. It is possible that some of your parents will be horrified that I have done so — either because they will not believe that Lord Voldemort has returned, or because they think I should not tell you so, young as you are. It is my belief, however, that the truth is generally preferable to lies, and that any attempt to pretend that Cedric died as the result of an accident, or some sort of blunder of his own, is an insult to his memory."
"There is somebody else who must be mentioned in connection with Cedric’s death,” Dumbledore went on. “I am talking, of course, about Harry Potter."
"Harry Potter managed to escape Lord Voldemort,” said Dumbledore. “He risked his own life to return Cedric’s body to Hogwarts. He showed, in every respect, the sort of bravery that few wizards have ever shown in facing Lord Voldemort, and for this, I honor him."
"The Triwizard Tournament’s aim was to further and promote magical understanding. In the light of what has happened — of Lord Voldemort’s return — such ties are more important than ever before."
"Every guest in this Hall,"
"Remember Cedric. Remember, if the time should come when you have to make a choice between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort. Remember Cedric Diggory."
"’Arry!"
"We will see each uzzer again, I ’ope,” said Fleur as she reached him, holding out her hand. “I am ’oping to get a job ’ere, to improve my Eenglish."
"It’s very good already,"
"Good-bye, ’Arry,” said Fleur, turning to go. “It ’az been a pleasure meeting you!"
"Wonder how the Durmstrang students are getting back,” said Ron. “D’you reckon they can steer that ship without Karkaroff?"
"Karkaroff did not steer,” said a gruff voice. “He stayed in his cabin and let us do the vork."
"Could I have a vord?"
"Oh . . . yes . . . all right,"
"You’d better hurry up!” Ron called loudly after her. “The carriages’ll be here in a minute!"
"I liked Diggory,” said Krum abruptly to Harry. “He vos alvays polite to me. Alvays. Even though I vos from Durmstrang — with Karkaroff,"
"Have you got a new headmaster yet?"
"Can I have your autograph?"
"There’s nothing in there. You can look for yourself, but there’s nothing at all. I’ve been checking every day. Just a small piece the day after the third task saying you won the tournament. They didn’t even mention Cedric. Nothing about any of it. If you ask me, Fudge is forcing them to keep quiet."
"He’ll never keep Rita quiet,” said Harry. “Not on a story like this."
"Oh, Rita hasn’t written anything at all since the third task,” said Hermione in an oddly constrained voice. “As a matter of fact,” she added, her voice now trembling slightly, “Rita Skeeter isn’t going to be writing anything at all for a while. Not unless she wants me to spill the beans on her."
"What are you talking about?"
"I found out how she was listening in on private conversations when she wasn’t supposed to be coming onto the grounds,"
"How was she doing it?"
"How did you find out?"
"Well, it was you, really, who gave me the idea, Harry,"
"Did I?” said Harry, perplexed. “How?"
"Bugging,"
"But you said they didn’t work —"
"Oh not electronic bugs,” said Hermione. “No, you see . . . Rita Skeeter” — Hermione’s voice trembled with quiet triumph — “is an unregistered Animagus. She can turn —"
"— into a beetle."
"You’re kidding,” said Ron. “You haven’t . . . she’s not . . ."
"Oh yes she is,"
"That’s never — you’re kidding —"
"No, I’m not,” said Hermione, beaming. “I caught her on the windowsill in the hospital wing. Look very closely, and you’ll notice the markings around her antennae are exactly like those foul glasses she wears."
"There was a beetle on the statue the night we heard Hagrid telling Madame Maxime about his mum!"
"Exactly,” said Hermione. “And Viktor pulled a beetle out of my hair after we’d had our conversation by the lake. And unless I’m very much mistaken, Rita was perched on the windowsill of the Divination class the day your scar hurt. She’s been buzzing around for stories all year."
"When we saw Malfoy under that tree . . ."
"He was talking to her, in his hand,” said Hermione. “He knew, of course. That’s how she’s been getting all those nice little interviews with the Slytherins. They wouldn’t care that she was doing something illegal, as long as they were giving her horrible stuff about us and Hagrid."
"I’ve told her I’ll let her out when we get back to London,” said Hermione. “I’ve put an Unbreakable Charm on the jar, you see, so she can’t transform. And I’ve told her she’s to keep her quill to herself for a whole year. See if she can’t break the habit of writing horrible lies about people."
"Very clever, Granger,"
"So,” said Malfoy slowly, advancing slightly into the compartment and looking slowly around at them, a smirk quivering on his lips. “You caught some pathetic reporter, and Potter’s Dumbledore’s favorite boy again. Big deal."
"Trying not to think about it, are we?” said Malfoy softly, looking around at all three of them. “Trying to pretend it hasn’t happened?"
"Get out,"
"You’ve picked the losing side, Potter! I warned you! I told you you ought to choose your company more carefully, remember? When we met on the train, first day at Hogwarts? I told you not to hang around with riffraff like this!” He jerked his head at Ron and Hermione. “Too late now, Potter! They’ll be the first to go, now the Dark Lord’s back! Mudbloods and Muggle-lovers first! Well — second — Diggory was the f —"
"Thought we’d see what those three were up to,"
"Interesting effect,” said George, looking down at Crabbe. “Who used the Furnunculus Curse?"
"Me,"
"Odd,” said George lightly. “I used Jelly-Legs. Looks as though those two shouldn’t be mixed. He seems to have sprouted little tentacles all over his face. Well, let’s not leave them here, they don’t add much to the decor."
"Exploding Snap, anyone?"
"You going to tell us, then?” he said to George. “Who you were blackmailing?"
"Oh,” said George darkly. “That."
"It doesn’t matter,” said Fred, shaking his head impatiently. “It wasn’t anything important. Not now, anyway."
"We’ve given up,"
"All right, all right, if you really want to know . . . it was Ludo Bagman."
"Bagman?” said Harry sharply. “Are you saying he was involved in —"
"Nah,” said George gloomily. “Nothing like that. Stupid git. He wouldn’t have the brains."
"Well, what, then?"
"You remember that bet we had with him at the Quidditch World Cup? About how Ireland would win, but Krum would get the Snitch?"
"Yeah,"
"Well, the git paid us in leprechaun gold he’d caught from the Irish mascots."
"So?"
"So,” said Fred impatiently, “it vanished, didn’t it? By next morning, it had gone!"
"But — it must’ve been an accident, mustn’t it?"
"Yeah, that’s what we thought, at first. We thought if we just wrote to him, and told him he’d made a mistake, he’d cough up. But nothing doing. Ignored our letter. We kept trying to talk to him about it at Hogwarts, but he was always making some excuse to get away from us."
"In the end, he turned pretty nasty,” said Fred. “Told us we were too young to gamble, and he wasn’t giving us anything."
"So we asked for our money back,"
"He didn’t refuse!"
"Right in one,"
"But that was all your savings!"
"Tell me about it,” said George. “’Course, we found out what was going on in the end. Lee Jordan’s dad had had a bit of trouble getting money off Bagman as well. Turns out he’s in big trouble with the goblins. Borrowed loads of gold off them. A gang of them cornered him in the woods after the World Cup and took all the gold he had, and it still wasn’t enough to cover all his debts. They followed him all the way to Hogwarts to keep an eye on him. He’s lost everything gambling. Hasn’t got two Galleons to rub together. And you know how the idiot tried to pay the goblins back?"
"How?"
"He put a bet on you, mate,” said Fred. “Put a big bet on you to win the tournament. Bet against the goblins."
"So that’s why he kept trying to help me win!” said Harry. “Well — I did win, didn’t I? So he can pay you your gold!"
"Nope,” said George, shaking his head. “The goblins play as dirty as him. They say you drew with Diggory, and Bagman was betting you’d win outright. So Bagman had to run for it. He did run for it right after the third task."
"Fred — George — wait a moment."
"Take it,"
"What?"
"Take it,” Harry repeated firmly. “I don’t want it."
"You’re mental,"
"No, I’m not,” said Harry. “You take it, and get inventing. It’s for the joke shop."
"He is mental,"
"Listen,” said Harry firmly. “If you don’t take it, I’m throwing it down the drain. I don’t want it and I don’t need it. But I could do with a few laughs. We could all do with a few laughs. I’ve got a feeling we’re going to need them more than usual before long."
"Harry,” said George weakly, weighing the money bag in his hands, “there’s got to be a thousand Galleons in here."
"Yeah,” said Harry, grinning. “Think how many Canary Creams that is."
"Just don’t tell your mum where you got it . . . although she might not be so keen for you to join the Ministry anymore, come to think of it. . . ."
"Harry,"
"Look,” he said flatly, “take it, or I’ll hex you. I know some good ones now. Just do me one favor, okay? Buy Ron some different dress robes and say they’re from you."
"I think Dumbledore will let you come to us later in the summer. Keep in touch, Harry."
"See you, Harry,"
"’Bye, Harry!"
"Harry — thanks,"
"Glad to see the boy’s stopped trying to butt in. Where is he anyway?"
"I don’t know,” said Aunt Petunia unconcernedly. “Not in the house."
"Watching the news . . .” he said scathingly. “I’d like to know what he’s really up to. As if a normal boy cares what’s on the news — Dudley hasn’t got a clue what’s going on, doubt he knows who the Prime Minister is! Anyway, it’s not as if there’d be anything about his lot on our news —"
"Vernon, shh!” said Aunt Petunia. “The window’s open!"
"Oh — yes — sorry, dear . . ."
"Dudders out for tea?"
"At the Polkisses’,” said Aunt Petunia fondly. “He’s got so many little friends, he’s so popular . . ."
"Record numbers of stranded holidaymakers fill airports as the Spanish baggage-handlers’ strike reaches its second week —"
"Give ’em a lifelong siesta, I would,"
"I hope he’s listening next door!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, “with his sprinklers on at three in the morning!”); then a helicopter that had almost crashed in a field in Surrey, then a famous actress’s divorce from her famous husband (“as if we’re interested in their sordid affairs,"
"And finally, Bungy the budgie has found a novel way of keeping cool this summer. Bungy, who lives at the Five Feathers in Barnsley, has learned to water-ski! Mary Dorkins went to find out more . . ."
"Put — it — away!” Uncle Vernon snarled into Harry’s ear. “Now! Before — anyone — sees!"
"Get — off — me!"
"Lovely evening!” shouted Uncle Vernon, waving at Mrs. Number Seven, who was glaring from behind her net curtains. “Did you hear that car backfire just now? Gave Petunia and me quite a turn!"
"What the devil do you mean by it, boy?"
"What do I mean by what?"
"Making a racket like a starting pistol right outside our —"
"I didn’t make that noise,"
"Why were you lurking under our window?"
"Yes — yes, good point, Petunia! What were you doing under our window, boy?"
"Listening to the news,"
"Listening to the news! Again?"
"Well, it changes every day, you see,"
"Don’t you be clever with me, boy! I want to know what you’re really up to — and don’t give me any more of this listening to the news tosh! You know perfectly well that your lot . . ."
"Careful, Vernon!” breathed Aunt Petunia, and Uncle Vernon lowered his voice so that Harry could barely hear him, “. . . that your lot don’t get on our news!"
"That’s all you know,"
"You’re a nasty little liar. What are all those —” she too lowered her voice so that Harry had to lip-read the next word, “— owls — doing if they’re not bringing you news?"
"Aha!” said Uncle Vernon in a triumphant whisper. “Get out of that one, boy! As if we didn’t know you get all your news from those pestilential birds!"
"The owls . . . aren’t bringing me news,"
"I don’t believe it,"
"No more do I,"
"We know you’re up to something funny,"
"We’re not stupid, you know,"
"Well, that’s news to me,"
"We can’t say much about you-know-what, obviously. . . .” “We’ve been told not to say anything important in case our letters go astray. . . .” “We’re quite busy but I can’t give you details here. . . .” “There’s a fair amount going on, we’ll tell you everything when we see you. . . ."
"I expect we’ll be seeing you quite soon"
"I know this must be frustrating for you. . . .” “Keep your nose clean and everything will be okay. . . .” “Be careful and don’t do anything rash. . . ."
"The noble sport,” as Uncle Vernon called it, had made Dudley even more formidable than he had seemed to Harry in the primary school days when he had served as Dudley’s first punching bag. Harry was not remotely afraid of his cousin anymore but he still didn’t think that Dudley learning to punch harder and more accurately was cause for celebration. Neighborhood children all around were terrified of him — even more terrified than they were of “that Potter boy,"
"delinquent"
". . . squealed like a pig, didn’t he?"
"Nice right hook, Big D,"
"Same time tomorrow?"
"Round at my place, my parents are out,"
"See you then,"
"Bye Dud!"
"See ya, Big D!"
"Hey, Big D!"
"Oh,” he grunted. “It’s you."
"How long have you been ‘Big D’ then?"
"Shut it,"
"Cool name,” said Harry, grinning and falling into step beside his cousin. “But you’ll always be Ickle Diddykins to me."
"I said, SHUT IT!"
"Don’t the boys know that’s what your mum calls you?"
"Shut your face."
"You don’t tell her to shut her face. What about ‘popkin’ and ‘Dinky Diddydums,’ can I use them then?"
"So who’ve you been beating up tonight?” Harry asked, his grin fading. “Another ten-year-old? I know you did Mark Evans two nights ago —"
"He was asking for it,"
"Oh yeah?"
"He cheeked me."
"Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig that’s been taught to walk on its hind legs? ’Cause that’s not cheek, Dud, that’s true . . ."
"Think you’re a big man carrying that thing, don’t you?"
"What thing?"
"That — that thing you’re hiding."
"Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I s’pose if you were, you wouldn’t be able to walk and talk at the same time . . ."
"You’re not allowed,” Dudley said at once. “I know you’re not. You’d get expelled from that freak school you go to."
"How d’you know they haven’t changed the rules, Big D?"
"They haven’t,"
"You haven’t got the guts to take me on without that thing, have you?"
"Whereas you just need four mates behind you before you can beat up a ten-year-old. You know that boxing title you keep banging on about? How old was your opponent? Seven? Eight?"
"He was sixteen for your information,” snarled Dudley, “and he was out cold for twenty minutes after I’d finished with him and he was twice as heavy as you. You just wait till I tell Dad you had that thing out —"
"Running to Daddy now, are you? Is his ickle boxing champ frightened of nasty Harry’s wand?"
"Not this brave at night, are you?"
"This is night, Diddykins. That’s what we call it when it goes all dark like this."
"I mean when you’re in bed!"
"What d’you mean, I’m not brave in bed?” said Harry, completely nonplussed. “What — am I supposed to be frightened of pillows or something?"
"I heard you last night,” said Dudley breathlessly. “Talking in your sleep. Moaning."
"What d’you mean?"
"‘Don’t kill Cedric! Don’t kill Cedric!’ Who’s Cedric — your boyfriend?"
"I — you’re lying —"
"‘Dad! Help me, Dad! He’s going to kill me, Dad! Boo-hoo!’"
"Shut up,” said Harry quietly. “Shut up, Dudley, I’m warning you!"
"‘Come and help me, Dad! Mum, come and help me! He’s killed Cedric! Dad, help me! He’s going to —’ Don’t you point that thing at me!"
"Don’t ever talk about that again,” Harry snarled. “D’you understand me?"
"Point that thing somewhere else!"
"I said, do you understand me?"
"Point it somewhere else!"
"DO YOU UNDERSTAND ME?"
"GET THAT THING AWAY FROM —"
"W-what are you d-doing? St-stop it!"
"I’m not doing anything! Shut up and don’t move!"
"I c-can’t see! I’ve g-gone blind! I —"
"I said shut up!"
"I’ll t-tell Dad!” Dudley whimpered. “W-where are you? What are you d-do — ?"
"Will you shut up?” Harry hissed, “I’m trying to lis —"
"C-cut it out! Stop doing it! I’ll h-hit you, I swear I will!"
"Dudley, shut —"
"You moron, Dudley!"
"DUDLEY, COME BACK! YOU’RE RUNNING RIGHT AT IT!"
"DUDLEY, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! WHATEVER YOU DO, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! Wand!” Harry muttered frantically, his hands flying over the ground like spiders. “Where’s — wand — come on — Lumos!"
"Expecto Patronum!"
"Expecto Patronum!"
"Bow to death, Harry. . . . It might even be painless . . . I would not know . . . I have never died . . ."
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
"THIS WAY!” Harry shouted at the stag. Wheeling around, he sprinted down the alleyway, holding the lit wand aloft. “DUDLEY? DUDLEY!"
"GET IT!"
"Don’t put it away, idiot boy!” she shrieked. “What if there are more of them around? Oh, I’m going to kill Mundungus Fletcher!"
"He left!” said Mrs. Figg, wringing her hands. “Left to see someone about a batch of cauldrons that fell off the back of a broom! I told him I’d flay him alive if he went, and now look! Dementors! It’s just lucky I put Mr. Tibbles on the case! But we haven’t got time to stand around! Hurry, now, we’ve got to get you back! Oh, the trouble this is going to cause! I will kill him!"
"But —"
"You’re — you’re a witch?"
"I’m a Squib, as Mundungus knows full well, so how on earth was I supposed to help you fight off dementors? He left you completely without cover when I warned him —"
"This bloke Mundungus has been following me? Hang on — it was him! He Disapparated from the front of my house!"
"Yes, yes, yes, but luckily I’d stationed Mr. Tibbles under a car just in case, and Mr. Tibbles came and warned me, but by the time I got to your house you’d gone — and now — oh, what’s Dumbledore going to say? You!” she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the alley floor. “Get your fat bottom off the ground, quick!"
"You know Dumbledore?"
"Of course I know Dumbledore, who doesn’t know Dumbledore? But come on — I’ll be no help if they come back, I’ve never so much as Transfigured a teabag —"
"Get up, you useless lump, get up!"
"I’ll do it."
"Hurry up!"
"Keep your wand out,” she told Harry, as they entered Wisteria Walk. “Never mind the Statute of Secrecy now, there’s going to be hell to pay anyway, we might as well be hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk about the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery . . . This was exactly what Dumbledore was afraid of — what’s that at the end of the street? Oh, it’s just Mr. Prentice. . . . Don’t put your wand away, boy, don’t I keep telling you I’m no use?"
"Why didn’t you tell me you’re a Squib?” Harry asked Mrs. Figg, panting with the effort to keep walking. “All those times I came round your house — why didn’t you say anything?"
"Dumbledore’s orders. I was to keep an eye on you but not say anything, you were too young. I’m sorry I gave you such a miserable time, but the Dursleys would never have let you come if they’d thought you enjoyed it. It wasn’t easy, you know. . . . But oh my word,” she said tragically, wringing her hands once more, “when Dumbledore hears about this — how could Mundungus have left, he was supposed to be on duty until midnight — where is he? How am I going to tell Dumbledore what’s happened, I can’t Apparate —"
"I’ve got an owl, you can borrow her,"
"Harry, you don’t understand! Dumbledore will need to act as quickly as possible, the Ministry have their own ways of detecting underage magic, they’ll know already, you mark my words —"
"But I was getting rid of dementors, I had to use magic — they’re going to be more worried what dementors were doing floating around Wisteria Walk, surely?"
"Oh my dear, I wish it were so but I’m afraid — MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO KILL YOU!"
"’S’ up, Figgy?” he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to Harry and Dudley. “What ’appened to staying undercover?"
"I’ll give you undercover!” cried Mrs. Figg. “Dementors, you useless, skiving sneak thief!"
"Dementors?” repeated Mundungus, aghast. “Dementors here?"
"Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!” shrieked Mrs. Figg. “Dementors attacking the boy on your watch!"
"Blimey,” said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. Figg to Harry and back again. “Blimey, I . . ."
"And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn’t I tell you not to go? Didn’t I?"
"I — well, I —” Mundungus looked deeply uncomfortable. “It . . . it was a very good business opportunity, see . . ."
"Ouch — gerroff — gerroff, you mad old bat! Someone’s gotta tell Dumbledore!"
"Yes — they — have!” yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging the bag of cat food at every bit of Mundungus she could reach. “And — it — had — better — be — you — and — you — can — tell — him — why — you — weren’t — there — to — help!"
"Keep your ’airnet on!” said Mundungus, his arms over his head, cowering. “I’m going, I’m going!"
"I hope Dumbledore murders him!” said Mrs. Figg furiously. “Now come on, Harry, what are you waiting for?"
"I’ll take you to the door,” said Mrs. Figg, as they turned into Privet Drive. “Just in case there are more of them around. . . . Oh my word, what a catastrophe . . . and you had to fight them off yourself . . . and Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing magic at all costs. . . . Well, it’s no good crying over spilled potion, I suppose . . . but the cat’s among the pixies now . . ."
"So,” Harry panted, “Dumbledore’s . . . been having . . . me followed?"
"Of course he has,” said Mrs. Figg impatiently. “Did you expect him to let you wander around on your own after what happened in June? Good Lord, boy, they told me you were intelligent. . . . Right . . . get inside and stay there,” she said as they reached number four. “I expect someone will be in touch with you soon enough."
"What are you going to do?"
"I’m going straight home,” said Mrs. Figg, staring around the dark street and shuddering. “I’ll need to wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house. Good night."
"Hang on, don’t go yet! I want to know —"
"Wait!"
"Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite — quite — Diddy, what’s the matter?"
"DIDDY! Diddy, what’s the matter with you? Vernon? VERNON!"
"He’s ill, Vernon!"
"What is it, son? What’s happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss give you something foreign for tea?"
"Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you been lying on the ground?"
"Hang on — you haven’t been mugged, have you, son?"
"Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, darling, speak to Mummy! What did they do to you?"
"Who did it, son? Give us names. We’ll get them, don’t worry."
"Shh! He’s trying to say something, Vernon! What is it, Diddy? Tell Mummy!"
"Him."
"BOY! COME HERE!"
"What have you done to my son?"
"Nothing,"
"What did he do to you, Diddy?” Aunt Petunia said in a quavering voice, now sponging sick from the front of Dudley’s leather jacket. “Was it — was it you-know-what, darling? Did he use — his thing?"
"I didn’t!” Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out a wail and Uncle Vernon raised his fists. “I didn’t do anything to him, it wasn’t me, it was —"
"OWLS!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in his temple pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen window shut. “OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE OWLS IN MY HOUSE!"
"Where d’you think you’re going?” yelled Uncle Vernon. When Harry didn’t reply, he pounded across the kitchen to block the doorway into the hall. “I haven’t finished with you, boy!"
"Get out of the way,"
"You’re going to stay here and explain how my son —"
"If you don’t get out of the way I’m going to jinx you,"
"You can’t pull that one on me!” snarled Uncle Vernon. “I know you’re not allowed to use it outside that madhouse you call a school!"
"The madhouse has chucked me out,” said Harry. “So I can do whatever I like. You’ve got three seconds. One — two —"
"OWLS!"
"Right,” Harry said, “I’ve changed my mind, I’m staying."
"Who are all these ruddy owls from?"
"The first one was from the Ministry of Magic, expelling me,” said Harry calmly; he was straining his ears to catch noises outside in case the Ministry representatives were approaching, and it was easier and quieter to answer Uncle Vernon’s questions than to have him start raging and bellowing. “The second one was from my friend Ron’s dad, he works at the Ministry."
"Ministry of Magic?” bellowed Uncle Vernon. “People like you in government? Oh this explains everything, everything, no wonder the country’s going to the dogs . . ."
"And why have you been expelled?"
"Because I did magic."
"AHA!” roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down on the top of the fridge, which sprang open; several of Dudley’s low-fat snacks toppled out and burst on the floor. “So you admit it! What did you do to Dudley?"
"Nothing,” said Harry, slightly less calmly. “That wasn’t me —"
"Was,"
"Go on, son,” said Uncle Vernon, “what did he do?"
"Tell us, darling,"
"Pointed his wand at me,"
"Yeah, I did, but I didn’t use —"
"SHUT UP!” roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in unison. “Go on, son,"
"All dark,” Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. “Everything dark. And then I h-heard . . . things. Inside m-my head . . ."
"What sort of things did you hear, popkin?"
"How come you fell over, son?"
"T-tripped,” said Dudley shakily. “And then —"
"Horrible,” croaked Dudley. “Cold. Really cold."
"Okay,” said Uncle Vernon in a voice of forced calm, while Aunt Petunia laid an anxious hand on Dudley’s forehead to feel his temperature. “What happened then, Dudders?"
"Felt . . . felt . . . felt . . . as if . . . as if . . ."
"As if you’d never be happy again,"
"Yes,"
"So,” said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and considerable volume as he straightened up. “So you put some crackpot spell on my son so he’d hear voices and believe he was — was doomed to misery, or something, did you?"
"How many times do I have to tell you?” said Harry, temper and voice rising together. “It wasn’t me! It was a couple of dementors!"
"A couple of — what’s this codswallop?"
"De — men — tors,” said Harry slowly and clearly. “Two of them."
"And what the ruddy hell are dementors?"
"They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban,"
"How d’you know that?"
"I heard — that awful boy — telling her about them — years ago,"
"If you mean my mum and dad, why don’t you use their names?"
"So — so — they — er — they — er — they actually exist, do they — er — dementy-whatsits?"
"April Fool!"
"Enough — effing — owls . . ."
"Well?” said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his surroundings. “What now? Have they sentenced you to anything? Do your lot have the death penalty?"
"I’ve got to go to a hearing,"
"And they’ll sentence you there?"
"I suppose so."
"I won’t give up hope, then,"
"Well, if that’s all,"
"NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL!” bellowed Uncle Vernon. “SIT BACK DOWN!"
"What now?"
"DUDLEY!” roared Uncle Vernon. “I want to know exactly what happened to my son!"
"FINE!"
"Dudley and I were in the alleyway between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk,” said Harry, speaking fast, fighting to control his temper. “Dudley thought he’d be smart with me, I pulled out my wand but didn’t use it. Then two dementors turned up —"
"But what ARE dementoids?” asked Uncle Vernon furiously. “What do they DO?"
"I told you — they suck all the happiness out of you,” said Harry, “and if they get the chance, they kiss you —"
"Kiss you?” said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping slightly. “Kiss you?"
"It’s what they call it when they suck the soul out of your mouth."
"His soul? They didn’t take — he’s still got his —"
"Of course they didn’t get his soul, you’d know if they had,"
"Fought ’em off, did you, son?” said Uncle Vernon loudly, with the appearance of a man struggling to bring the conversation back onto a plane he understood. “Gave ’em the old one-two, did you?"
"You can’t give a dementor the old one-two,"
"Why’s he all right, then?” blustered Uncle Vernon. “Why isn’t he all empty, then?"
"Because I used the Patronus —"
"FOR GOD’S SAKE!” roared Uncle Vernon, pulling great clumps of hair out of his mustache, something he hadn’t been driven to in a long time. “I WILL NOT HAVE OWLS HERE, I WILL NOT TOLERATE THIS, I TELL YOU!"
"well done"
"— a peck, I mean, pack of owls shooting in and out of my house and I won’t have it, boy, I won’t —"
"I can’t stop the owls coming,"
"I want the truth about what happened tonight!” barked Uncle Vernon. “If it was demenders who hurt Dudley, how come you’ve been expelled? You did you-know-what, you’ve admitted it!"
"I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the dementors,” he said, forcing himself to remain calm. “It’s the only thing that works against them."
"But what were dementoids doing in Little Whinging?"
"Couldn’t tell you,” said Harry wearily. “No idea."
"It’s you,” said Uncle Vernon forcefully. “It’s got something to do with you, boy, I know it. Why else would they turn up here? Why else would they be down that alleyway? You’ve got to be the only — the only —” Evidently he couldn’t bring himself to say the word “wizard.” “The only you-know-what for miles."
"I don’t know why they were here . . ."
"These demembers guard some weirdos’ prison?"
"Yes,"
"Oho! They were coming to arrest you!” said Uncle Vernon, with the triumphant air of a man reaching an unassailable conclusion. “That’s it, isn’t it, boy? You’re on the run from the law!"
"Of course I’m not,"
"Then why — ?"
"He must have sent them,"
"What’s that? Who must have sent them?"
"Lord Voldemort,"
"wizard,” “magic,” or “wand,"
"Lord — hang on,” said Uncle Vernon, his face screwed up, a look of dawning comprehension in his piggy eyes. “I’ve heard that name . . . that was the one who . . ."
"Murdered my parents, yes,"
"But he’s gone,” said Uncle Vernon impatiently, without the slightest sign that the murder of Harry’s parents might be a painful topic to anybody. “That giant bloke said so. He’s gone."
"He’s back,"
"Back?"
"Yes,” Harry said, talking directly to Aunt Petunia now. “He came back a month ago. I saw him."
"Hang on,” said Uncle Vernon, looking from his wife to Harry and back again, apparently dazed and confused by the unprecedented understanding that seemed to have sprung up between them. “Hang on. This Lord Voldything’s back, you say."
"Yes."
"The one who murdered your parents."
"Yes."
"And now he’s sending dismembers after you?"
"Looks like it,"
"I see,” said Uncle Vernon, looking from his white-faced wife to Harry and hitching up his trousers. He seemed to be swelling, his great purple face stretching before Harry’s eyes. “Well, that settles it,” he said, his shirt front straining as he inflated himself, “you can get out of this house, boy!"
"What?"
"You heard me — OUT!” Uncle Vernon bellowed, and even Aunt Petunia and Dudley jumped. “OUT! OUT! I should’ve done it years ago! Owls treating the place like a rest home, puddings exploding, half the lounge destroyed, Dudley’s tail, Marge bobbing around on the ceiling, and that flying Ford Anglia — OUT! OUT! You’ve had it! You’re history! You’re not staying here if some loony’s after you, you’re not endangering my wife and son, you’re not bringing trouble down on us, if you’re going the same way as your useless parents, I’ve had it! OUT!"
"You heard me!” said Uncle Vernon, bending forward now, so that his massive purple face came closer to Harry’s, so that Harry actually felt flecks of spit hit his face. “Get going! You were all keen to leave half an hour ago! I’m right behind you! Get out and never darken our doorstep again! Why we ever kept you in the first place I don’t know. Marge was right, it should have been the orphanage, we were too damn soft for our own good, thought we could squash it out of you, thought we could turn you normal, but you’ve been rotten from the beginning, and I’ve had enough — OWLS!"
"You can open it if you like,” said Harry, “but I’ll hear what it says anyway. That’s a Howler."
"Let go of it, Petunia!” roared Uncle Vernon. “Don’t touch it, it could be dangerous!"
"It’s addressed to me,” said Aunt Petunia in a shaking voice. “It’s addressed to me, Vernon, look! Mrs. Petunia Dursley, The Kitchen, Number Four, Privet Drive —"
"Open it!” Harry urged her. “Get it over with! It’ll happen anyway —"
"No —"
"REMEMBER MY LAST, PETUNIA."
"What is this?” Uncle Vernon said hoarsely. “What — I don’t — Petunia?"
"Petunia, dear?” said Uncle Vernon timidly. “P-Petunia?"
"The boy — the boy will have to stay, Vernon,"
"W-what?"
"He stays,"
"He . . . but Petunia . . ."
"If we throw him out, the neighbors will talk,” she said. She was regaining her usual brisk, snappish manner rapidly, though she was still very pale. “They’ll ask awkward questions, they’ll want to know where he’s gone. We’ll have to keep him."
"But Petunia, dear —"
"You’re to stay in your room,” she said. “You’re not to leave the house. Now get to bed."
"Who was that Howler from?"
"Don’t ask questions,"
"Are you in touch with wizards?"
"I told you to get to bed!"
"What did it mean? Remember the last what?"
"Go to bed!"
"How come — ?"
"YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GET TO BED!"
"About time!” Harry snarled, as she landed lightly on top of her cage. “You can put that down, I’ve got work for you!"
"Come here,” said Harry, picking up the three small rolls of parchment and a leather thong and tying the scrolls to her scaly leg. “Take these straight to Sirius, Ron, and Hermione and don’t come back here without good long replies. Keep pecking them till they’ve written decent-length answers if you’ve got to. Understand?"
"Get going, then,"
"We’re going out,"
"Sorry?"
"We — that is to say, your aunt, Dudley, and I — are going out."
"Fine,"
"You are not to leave your bedroom while we are away."
"Okay."
"You are not to touch the television, the stereo, or any of our possessions."
"Right."
"You are not to steal food from the fridge."
"Okay."
"I am going to lock your door."
"You do that."
"Lower your wand, boy, before you take someone’s eye out,"
"Professor Moody?"
"I don’t know so much about ‘Professor,’” growled the voice, “never got round to much teaching, did I? Get down here, we want to see you properly."
"It’s all right, Harry. We’ve come to take you away."
"P-Professor Lupin?” he said disbelievingly. “Is that you?"
"Why are we all standing in the dark?” said a third voice, this one completely unfamiliar, a woman’s. “Lumos."
"Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would,” said the witch who was holding her lit wand aloft. She looked the youngest there; she had a pale heart-shaped face, dark twinkling eyes, and short spiky hair that was a violent shade of violet. “Wotcher, Harry!"
"Yeah, I see what you mean, Remus,” said a bald black wizard standing farthest back; he had a deep, slow voice and wore a single gold hoop in his ear. “He looks exactly like James."
"Except the eyes,” said a wheezy-voiced, silver-haired wizard at the back. “Lily’s eyes."
"Are you quite sure it’s him, Lupin?” he growled. “It’d be a nice lookout if we bring back some Death Eater impersonating him. We ought to ask him something only the real Potter would know. Unless anyone brought any Veritaserum?"
"Harry, what form does your Patronus take?"
"A stag,"
"That’s him, Mad-Eye,"
"Don’t put your wand there, boy!” roared Moody. “What if it ignited? Better wizards than you have lost buttocks, you know!"
"Who d’you know who’s lost a buttock?"
"Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your back pocket!” growled Mad-Eye. “Elementary wand safety, nobody bothers about it anymore . . .” He stumped off toward the kitchen. “And I saw that,"
"How are you?"
"F-fine . . ."
"I’m — you’re really lucky the Dursleys are out . . ."
"Lucky, ha!” said the violet-haired woman. “It was me that lured them out of the way. Sent a letter by Muggle post telling them they’d been short-listed for the All-England Best-Kept Suburban Lawn Competition. They’re heading off to the prize-giving right now. . . . Or they think they are."
"We are leaving, aren’t we?” he asked. “Soon?"
"Almost at once,” said Lupin, “we’re just waiting for the all-clear."
"Where are we going? The Burrow?"
"Not the Burrow, no,” said Lupin, motioning Harry toward the kitchen; the little knot of wizards followed, all still eyeing Harry curiously. “Too risky. We’ve set up headquarters somewhere undetectable. It’s taken a while . . ."
"This is Alastor Moody, Harry,"
"Yeah, I know,"
"And this is Nymphadora —"
"Don’t call me Nymphadora, Remus,” said the young witch with a shudder. “It’s Tonks."
"— Nymphadora Tonks, who prefers to be known by her surname only,"
"So would you if your fool of a mother had called you ‘Nymphadora,’"
"And this is Kingsley Shacklebolt” — he indicated the tall black wizard, who bowed — “Elphias Doge” — the wheezy-voiced wizard nodded — “Dedalus Diggle —"
"We’ve met before,"
"— Emmeline Vance” — a stately looking witch in an emerald-green shawl inclined her head — “Sturgis Podmore” — a square-jawed wizard with thick, straw-colored hair winked — “and Hestia Jones."
"A surprising number of people volunteered to come and get you,"
"Yeah, well, the more the better,” said Moody darkly. “We’re your guard, Potter."
"We’re just waiting for the signal to tell us it’s safe to set off,” said Lupin, glancing out of the kitchen window. “We’ve got about fifteen minutes."
"Very clean, aren’t they, these Muggles?” said the witch called Tonks, who was looking around the kitchen with great interest. “My dad’s Muggle-born and he’s a right old slob. I suppose it varies, just like with wizards?"
"Er — yeah,” said Harry. “Look” — he turned back to Lupin — “what’s going on, I haven’t heard anything from anyone, what’s Vol — ?"
"Shut up!"
"What?"
"We’re not discussing anything here, it’s too risky,” said Moody, turning his normal eye on Harry; his magical eye remained pointing up at the ceiling. “Damn it,” he added angrily, putting a hand up to the magical eye, “it keeps sticking — ever since that scum wore it —"
"Mad-Eye, you do know that’s disgusting, don’t you?"
"Get me a glass of water, would you, Harry?"
"Cheers,” said Moody, when Harry handed him the glass. He dropped the magical eyeball into the water and prodded it up and down; the eye whizzed around, staring at them all in turn. “I want three-hundred-and-sixty degrees visibility on the return journey."
"How’re we getting — wherever we’re going?"
"Brooms,” said Lupin. “Only way. You’re too young to Apparate, they’ll be watching the Floo Network, and it’s more than our life’s worth to set up an unauthorized Portkey."
"Remus says you’re a good flier,"
"He’s excellent,” said Lupin, who was checking his watch. “Anyway, you’d better go and get packed, Harry, we want to be ready to go when the signal comes."
"I’ll come and help you,"
"Funny place,” she said, “it’s a bit too clean, d’you know what I mean? Bit unnatural. Oh, this is better,"
"You know, I don’t think purple’s really my color,” she said pensively, tugging at a lock of spiky hair. “D’you think it makes me look a bit peaky?"
"Er —"
"Yeah, it does,"
"How did you do that?"
"I’m a Metamorphmagus,” she said, looking back at her reflection and turning her head so that she could see her hair from all directions. “It means I can change my appearance at will,” she added, spotting Harry’s puzzled expression in the mirror behind her. “I was born one. I got top marks in Concealment and Disguise during Auror training without any study at all, it was great."
"You’re an Auror?"
"Yeah,” said Tonks, looking proud. “Kingsley is as well; he’s a bit higher up than I am, though. I only qualified a year ago. Nearly failed on Stealth and Tracking, I’m dead clumsy, did you hear me break that plate when we arrived downstairs?"
"Can you learn how to be a Metamorphmagus?"
"Bet you wouldn’t mind hiding that scar sometimes, eh?"
"No, I wouldn’t mind,"
"Well, you’ll have to learn the hard way, I’m afraid,” said Tonks. “Metamorphmagi are really rare, they’re born, not made. Most wizards need to use a wand or potions to change their appearance. . . . But we’ve got to get going, Harry, we’re supposed to be packing,"
"Oh — yeah,"
"Don’t be stupid, it’ll be much quicker if I — pack!"
"It’s not very neat,” said Tonks, walking over to the trunk and looking down at the jumble inside. “My mum’s got this knack of getting stuff to fit itself in neatly — she even gets the socks to fold themselves — but I’ve never mastered how she does it — it’s a kind of flick —"
"Ah, well,” said Tonks, slamming the trunk’s lid shut, “at least it’s all in. That could do with a bit of cleaning, too — Scourgify —” She pointed her wand at Hedwig’s cage; a few feathers and droppings vanished. “Well, that’s a bit better — I’ve never quite got the hang of these sort of householdy spells. Right — got everything? Cauldron? Broom? Wow! A Firebolt?"
"And I’m still riding a Comet Two Sixty,” said Tonks enviously. “Ah well . . . wand still in your jeans? Both buttocks still on? Okay, let’s go. Locomotor Trunk."
"Excellent,” said Lupin, looking up as Tonks and Harry entered. “We’ve got about a minute, I think. We should probably get out into the garden so we’re ready. Harry, I’ve left a letter telling your aunt and uncle not to worry —"
"They won’t,"
"That you’re safe —"
"That’ll just depress them."
"— and you’ll see them next summer."
"Do I have to?"
"Come here, boy,” said Moody gruffly, beckoning Harry toward him with his wand. “I need to Disillusion you."
"You need to what?"
"Disillusionment Charm,” said Moody, raising his wand. “Lupin says you’ve got an Invisibility Cloak, but it won’t stay on while we’re flying; this’ll disguise you better. Here you go —"
"Nice one, Mad-Eye,"
"Come on,"
"Clear night,” grunted Moody, his magical eye scanning the heavens. “Could’ve done with a bit more cloud cover. Right, you,” he barked at Harry, “we’re going to be flying in close formation. Tonks’ll be right in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupin’ll be covering you from below. I’m going to be behind you. The rest’ll be circling us. We don’t break ranks for anything, got me? If one of us is killed —"
"Is that likely?"
"— the others keep flying, don’t stop, don’t break ranks. If they take out all of us and you survive, Harry, the rear guard are standing by to take over; keep flying east and they’ll join you."
"Stop being so cheerful, Mad-Eye, he’ll think we’re not taking this seriously,"
"I’m just telling the boy the plan,” growled Moody. “Our job’s to deliver him safely to headquarters and if we die in the attempt —"
"No one’s going to die,"
"Mount your brooms, that’s the first signal!"
"Second signal, let’s go!"
"Hard left, hard left, there’s a Muggle looking up!” shouted Moody from behind him. Tonks swerved and Harry followed her, watching his trunk swinging wildly beneath her broom. “We need more height. . . . Give it another quarter of a mile!"
"Bearing south!” shouted Mad-Eye. “Town ahead!"
"Bear southeast and keep climbing, there’s some low cloud ahead we can lose ourselves in!"
"We’re not going through clouds!” shouted Tonks angrily. “We’ll get soaked, Mad-Eye!"
"Turning southwest!” yelled Moody. “We want to avoid the motorway!"
"We ought to double back for a bit, just to make sure we’re not being followed!"
"ARE YOU MAD, MAD-EYE?” Tonks screamed from the front. “We’re all frozen to our brooms! If we keep going off course we’re not going to get there until next week! We’re nearly there now!"
"Time to start the descent!” came Lupin’s voice. “Follow Tonks, Harry!"
"Here we go!"
"Where are we?” Harry asked, but Lupin said quietly, “In a minute."
"Got it,"
"Borrowed it from Dumbledore,” growled Moody, pocketing the Put-Outer. “That’ll take care of any Muggles looking out of the window, see? Now, come on, quick."
"Here,” Moody muttered, thrusting a piece of parchment toward Harry’s Disillusioned hand and holding his lit wand close to it, so as to illuminate the writing. “Read quickly and memorize."
"Not here, boy!” snarled Moody. “Wait till we’re inside!"
"But where’s — ?"
"Think about what you’ve just memorized,"
"Come on, hurry,"
"Get in quick, Harry,” Lupin whispered. “But don’t go far inside and don’t touch anything."
"Here —"
"Now stay still, everyone, while I give us a bit of light in here,"
"Oh, Harry, it’s lovely to see you!” she whispered, pulling him into a rib-cracking hug before holding him at arm’s length and examining him critically. “You’re looking peaky; you need feeding up, but you’ll have to wait a bit for dinner, I’m afraid . . ."
"He’s just arrived, the meeting’s started . . ."
"No, Harry, the meeting’s only for members of the Order. Ron and Hermione are upstairs, you can wait with them until the meeting’s over and then we’ll have dinner. And keep your voice down in the hall,"
"Why?"
"I don’t want to wake anything up."
"What d’you — ?"
"I’ll explain later, I’ve got to hurry, I’m supposed to be at the meeting — I’ll just show you where you’re sleeping."
"Mrs. Weasley, why — ?"
"Ron and Hermione will explain everything, dear, I’ve really got to dash,” Mrs. Weasley whispered distractedly. “There” — they had reached the second landing — “you’re the door on the right. I’ll call you when it’s over."
"HARRY! Ron, he’s here, Harry’s here! We didn’t hear you arrive! Oh, how are you? Are you all right? Have you been furious with us? I bet you have, I know our letters were useless — but we couldn’t tell you anything, Dumbledore made us swear we wouldn’t, oh, we’ve got so much to tell you, and you’ve got to tell us — the dementors! When we heard — and that Ministry hearing — it’s just outrageous, I’ve looked it all up, they can’t expel you, they just can’t, there’s provision in the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Sorcery for the use of magic in life-threatening situations —"
"Let him breathe, Hermione,"
"Hedwig!"
"She’s been in a right state,” said Ron. “Pecked us half to death when she brought your last letters, look at this —"
"Oh yeah,” Harry said. “Sorry about that, but I wanted answers, you know . . ."
"We wanted to give them to you, mate,” said Ron. “Hermione was going spare, she kept saying you’d do something stupid if you were stuck all on your own without news, but Dumbledore made us —"
"— swear not to tell me,” said Harry. “Yeah, Hermione’s already said."
"He seemed to think it was best,” said Hermione rather breathlessly. “Dumbledore, I mean."
"Right,"
"I think he thought you were safest with the Muggles —"
"Yeah?” said Harry, raising his eyebrows. “Have either of you been attacked by dementors this summer?"
"Well, no — but that’s why he’s had people from the Order of the Phoenix tailing you all the time —"
"Didn’t work that well, though, did it?” said Harry, doing his utmost to keep his voice even. “Had to look after myself after all, didn’t I?"
"He was so angry,” said Hermione in an almost awestruck voice. “Dumbledore. We saw him. When he found out Mundungus had left before his shift had ended. He was scary."
"Well, I’m glad he left,” Harry said coldly. “If he hadn’t, I wouldn’t have done magic and Dumbledore would probably have left me at Privet Drive all summer."
"Aren’t you . . . aren’t you worried about the Ministry of Magic hearing?"
"No,"
"So why’s Dumbledore been so keen to keep me in the dark?” Harry asked, still trying hard to keep his voice casual. “Did you — er — bother to ask him at all?"
"We told Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was going on,” said Ron. “We did, mate. But he’s really busy now, we’ve only seen him twice since we came here and he didn’t have much time, he just made us swear not to tell you important stuff when we wrote, he said the owls might be intercepted —"
"He could still’ve kept me informed if he’d wanted to,” Harry said shortly. “You’re not telling me he doesn’t know ways to send messages without owls."
"I thought that too. But he didn’t want you to know anything."
"Maybe he thinks I can’t be trusted,"
"Don’t be thick,"
"Or that I can’t take care of myself —"
"Of course he doesn’t think that!"
"So how come I have to stay at the Dursleys’ while you two get to join in everything that’s going on here?” said Harry, the words tumbling over one another in a rush, his voice growing louder with every word. “How come you two are allowed to know everything that’s going on — ?"
"We’re not!” Ron interrupted. “Mum won’t let us near the meetings, she says we’re too young —"
"SO YOU HAVEN’T BEEN IN THE MEETINGS, BIG DEAL! YOU’VE STILL BEEN HERE, HAVEN’T YOU? YOU’VE STILL BEEN TOGETHER! ME, I’VE BEEN STUCK AT THE DURSLEYS’ FOR A MONTH! AND I’VE HANDLED MORE THAN YOU TWO’VE EVER MANAGED AND DUMBLEDORE KNOWS IT — WHO SAVED THE SORCERER’S STONE? WHO GOT RID OF RIDDLE? WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR SKINS FROM THE DEMENTORS?"
"WHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAGONS AND SPHINXES AND EVERY OTHER FOUL THING LAST YEAR? WHO SAW HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO ESCAPE FROM HIM? ME!"
"BUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHAT’S GOING ON? WHY SHOULD ANYONE BOTHER TO TELL ME WHAT’S BEEN HAPPENING?"
"Harry, we wanted to tell you, we really did —"
"CAN’T’VE WANTED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR YOU’D HAVE SENT ME AN OWL, BUT DUMBLEDORE MADE YOU SWEAR —"
"Well, he did —"
"FOUR WEEKS I’VE BEEN STUCK IN PRIVET DRIVE, NICKING PAPERS OUT OF BINS TO TRY AND FIND OUT WHAT’S BEEN GOING ON —"
"We wanted to —"
"I SUPPOSE YOU’VE BEEN HAVING A REAL LAUGH, HAVEN’T YOU, ALL HOLED UP HERE TOGETHER —"
"No, honest —"
"Harry, we’re really sorry!” said Hermione desperately, her eyes now sparkling with tears. “You’re absolutely right, Harry — I’d be furious if it was me!"
"What is this place anyway?"
"Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix,"
"Is anyone going to bother telling me what the Order of the Phoenix — ?"
"It’s a secret society,” said Hermione quickly. “Dumbledore’s in charge, he founded it. It’s the people who fought against You-Know-Who last time."
"Who’s in it?"
"Quite a few people —"
"— we’ve met about twenty of them,” said Ron, “but we think there are more . . ."
"Well?"
"Er,” said Ron. “Well what?"
"Voldemort!” said Harry furiously, and both Ron and Hermione winced. “What’s happening? What’s he up to? Where is he? What are we doing to stop him?"
"We’ve told you, the Order don’t let us in on their meetings,” said Hermione nervously. “So we don’t know the details — but we’ve got a general idea —"
"Fred and George have invented Extendable Ears, see,” said Ron. “They’re really useful."
"Extendable — ?"
"Ears, yeah. Only we’ve had to stop using them lately because Mum found out and went berserk. Fred and George had to hide them all to stop Mum binning them. But we got a good bit of use out of them before Mum realized what was going on. We know some of the Order are following known Death Eaters, keeping tabs on them, you know —"
"— some of them are working on recruiting more people to the Order —"
"— and some of them are standing guard over something,” said Ron. “They’re always talking about guard duty."
"Couldn’t have been me, could it?"
"Oh yeah,"
"So what have you two been doing, if you’re not allowed in meetings?” he demanded. “You said you’d been busy."
"We have,” said Hermione quickly. “We’ve been decontaminating this house, it’s been empty for ages and stuff’s been breeding in here. We’ve managed to clean out the kitchen, most of the bedrooms, and I think we’re doing the drawing room tomo — AARGH!"
"Stop doing that!"
"Hello, Harry,” said George, beaming at him. “We thought we heard your dulcet tones."
"You don’t want to bottle up your anger like that, Harry, let it all out,” said Fred, also beaming. “There might be a couple of people fifty miles away who didn’t hear you."
"You two passed your Apparation tests, then?"
"With distinction,"
"It would have taken you about thirty seconds longer to walk down the stairs,"
"Time is Galleons, little brother,” said Fred. “Anyway, Harry, you’re interfering with reception. Extendable Ears,” he added in response to Harry’s raised eyebrows, holding up the string, which Harry now saw was trailing out onto the landing. “We’re trying to hear what’s going on downstairs."
"You want to be careful,” said Ron, staring at the ear. “If Mum sees one of them again . . ."
"It’s worth the risk, that’s a major meeting they’re having,"
"Oh hello, Harry!” said Ron’s younger sister, Ginny, brightly. “I thought I heard your voice."
"It’s no go with the Extendable Ears, she’s gone and put an Imperturbable Charm on the kitchen door."
"How d’you know?"
"Tonks told me how to find out,” said Ginny. “You just chuck stuff at the door and if it can’t make contact the door’s been Imperturbed. I’ve been flicking Dungbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they just soar away from it, so there’s no way the Extendable Ears will be able to get under the gap."
"Shame. I really fancied finding out what old Snape’s been up to."
"Snape?” said Harry quickly. “Is he here?"
"Yeah,” said George, carefully closing the door and sitting down on one of the beds; Fred and Ginny followed. “Giving a report. Top secret."
"Git,"
"He’s on our side now,"
"Doesn’t stop him being a git. The way he looks at us when he sees us . . ."
"Bill doesn’t like him either,"
"Is Bill here?” he asked. “I thought he was working in Egypt."
"He applied for a desk job so he could come home and work for the Order,” said Fred. “He says he misses the tombs, but,” he smirked, “there are compensations . . ."
"What d’you mean?"
"Remember old Fleur Delacour?” said George. “She’s got a job at Gringotts to eemprove ’er Eeenglish —"
"— and Bill’s been giving her a lot of private lessons,"
"Charlie’s in the Order too,” said George, “but he’s still in Romania, Dumbledore wants as many foreign wizards brought in as possible, so Charlie’s trying to make contacts on his days off."
"Couldn’t Percy do that?"
"Whatever you do, don’t mention Percy in front of Mum and Dad,"
"Why not?"
"Because every time Percy’s name’s mentioned, Dad breaks whatever he’s holding and Mum starts crying,"
"It’s been awful,"
"I think we’re well shut of him,"
"What’s happened?"
"Percy and Dad had a row,” said Fred. “I’ve never seen Dad row with anyone like that. It’s normally Mum who shouts . . ."
"It was the first week back after term ended,” said Ron. “We were about to come and join the Order. Percy came home and told us he’d been promoted."
"You’re kidding?"
"Yeah, we were all surprised,” said George, “because Percy got into a load of trouble about Crouch, there was an inquiry and everything. They said Percy ought to have realized Crouch was off his rocker and informed a superior. But you know Percy, Crouch left him in charge, he wasn’t going to complain . . ."
"So how come they promoted him?"
"That’s exactly what we wondered,” said Ron, who seemed very keen to keep normal conversation going now that Harry had stopped yelling. “He came home really pleased with himself — even more pleased than usual if you can imagine that — and told Dad he’d been offered a position in Fudge’s own office. A really good one for someone only a year out of Hogwarts — Junior Assistant to the Minister. He expected Dad to be all impressed, I think."
"Only Dad wasn’t,"
"Why not?"
"Well, apparently Fudge has been storming round the Ministry checking that nobody’s having any contact with Dumbledore,"
"Dumbledore’s name’s mud with the Ministry these days, see,” said Fred. “They all think he’s just making trouble saying You-Know-Who’s back."
"Dad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone who’s in league with Dumbledore can clear out their desks,"
"Trouble is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows he’s friendly with Dumbledore, and he’s always thought Dad’s a bit of a weirdo because of his Muggle obsession —"
"But what’s this got to do with Percy?"
"I’m coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants Percy in his office because he wants to use him to spy on the family — and Dumbledore."
"Bet Percy loved that."
"He went completely berserk. He said — well, he said loads of terrible stuff. He said he’s been having to struggle against Dad’s lousy reputation ever since he joined the Ministry and that Dad’s got no ambition and that’s why we’ve always been — you know — not had a lot of money, I mean —"
"What?"
"I know,” said Ron in a low voice. “And it got worse. He said Dad was an idiot to run around with Dumbledore, that Dumbledore was heading for big trouble and Dad was going to go down with him, and that he — Percy — knew where his loyalty lay and it was with the Ministry. And if Mum and Dad were going to become traitors to the Ministry he was going to make sure everyone knew he didn’t belong to our family anymore. And he packed his bags the same night and left. He’s living here in London now."
"Mum’s been in a right state,” said Ron. “You know — crying and stuff. She came up to London to try and talk to Percy but he slammed the door in her face. I dunno what he does if he meets Dad at work — ignores him, I s’pose."
"But Percy must know Voldemort’s back,” said Harry slowly. “He’s not stupid, he must know your mum and dad wouldn’t risk everything without proof —"
"Yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row,” said Ron, shooting Harry a furtive look. “Percy said the only evidence was your word and . . . I dunno . . . he didn’t think it was good enough."
"Percy takes the Daily Prophet seriously,"
"What are you talking about?"
"Haven’t — haven’t you been getting the Daily Prophet?"
"Yeah, I have!"
"Have you — er — been reading it thoroughly?"
"Not cover to cover,” said Harry defensively. “If they were going to report anything about Voldemort it would be headline news, wouldn’t it!"
"Well, you’d need to read it cover to cover to pick it up, but they — um — they mention you a couple of times a week."
"But I’d have seen —"
"Not if you’ve only been reading the front page, you wouldn’t,” said Hermione, shaking her head. “I’m not talking about big articles. They just slip you in, like you’re a standing joke."
"What d’you — ?"
"It’s quite nasty, actually,” said Hermione in a voice of forced calm. “They’re just building on Rita’s stuff."
"But she’s not writing for them anymore, is she?"
"Oh no, she’s kept her promise — not that she’s got any choice,” Hermione added with satisfaction. “But she laid the foundation for what they’re trying to do now."
"Which is what?"
"Okay, you know she wrote that you were collapsing all over the place and saying your scar was hurting and all that?"
"Yeah,"
"Well, they’re writing about you as though you’re this deluded, attention-seeking person who thinks he’s a great tragic hero or something,” said Hermione, very fast, as though it would be less unpleasant for Harry to hear these facts quickly. “They keep slipping in snide comments about you. If some far-fetched story appears they say something like ‘a tale worthy of Harry Potter’ and if anyone has a funny accident or anything it’s ‘let’s hope he hasn’t got a scar on his forehead or we’ll be asked to worship him next —’"
"I don’t want anyone to worship —"
"I know you don’t,” said Hermione quickly, looking frightened. “I know, Harry. But you see what they’re doing? They want to turn you into someone nobody will believe. Fudge is behind it, I’ll bet anything. They want wizards on the street to think you’re just some stupid boy who’s a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous tall stories because he loves being famous and wants to keep it going."
"I didn’t ask — I didn’t want — Voldemort killed my parents!” Harry spluttered. “I got famous because he murdered my family but couldn’t kill me! Who wants to be famous for that? Don’t they think I’d rather it’d never —"
"We know, Harry,"
"And of course, they didn’t report a word about the dementors attacking you,” said Hermione. “Someone’s told them to keep that quiet. That should’ve been a really big story, out-of-control dementors. They haven’t even reported that you broke the International Statute of Secrecy — we thought they would, it would tie in so well with this image of you as some stupid show-off — we think they’re biding their time until you’re expelled, then they’re really going to go to town — I mean, if you’re expelled, obviously,” she went on hastily, “you really shouldn’t be, not if they abide by their own laws, there’s no case against you."
"Uh-oh."
"The meeting’s over, you can come down and have dinner now, everyone’s dying to see you, Harry. And who’s left all those Dungbombs outside the kitchen door?"
"Crookshanks,” said Ginny unblushingly. “He loves playing with them."
"Oh,” said Mrs. Weasley, “I thought it might have been Kreacher, he keeps doing odd things like that. Now don’t forget to keep your voices down in the hall. Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you been doing? Go and wash them before dinner, please . . ."
"Look . . .” he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and Hermione said quietly, “We knew you’d be angry, Harry, we really don’t blame you, but you’ve got to understand, we did try and persuade Dumbledore —"
"Yeah, I know,"
"Who’s Kreacher?"
"The house-elf who lives here,” said Ron. “Nutter. Never met one like him."
"He’s not a nutter, Ron —"
"His life’s ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a plaque just like his mother,” said Ron irritably. “Is that normal, Hermione?"
"Well — well, if he is a bit strange, it’s not his fault —"
"Hermione still hasn’t given up on spew —"
"It’s not ‘spew’!” said Hermione heatedly. “It’s the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and it’s not just me, Dumbledore says we should be kind to Kreacher too —"
"Yeah, yeah,” said Ron. “C’mon, I’m starving."
"Hold it!” Ron breathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry and Hermione walking any farther. “They’re still in the hall, we might be able to hear something —"
"Dammit,"
"Snape never eats here,” Ron told Harry quietly. “Thank God. C’mon."
"And don’t forget to keep your voice down in the hall, Harry,"
"We’re eating down in the kitchen,” Mrs. Weasley whispered, meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. “Harry, dear, if you’ll just tiptoe across the hall, it’s through this door here —"
"Tonks!"
"I’m sorry!” wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. “It’s that stupid umbrella stand, that’s the second time I’ve tripped over —"
"Filth! Scum! By-products of dirt and vileness! Half-breeds, mutants, freaks, begone from this place! How dare you befoul the house of my fathers —"
"Shut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP!"
"Yoooou!” she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man. “Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my flesh!"
"I said — shut — UP!"
"Hello, Harry,” he said grimly, “I see you’ve met my mother."
"My dear old mum, yeah,” said Sirius. “We’ve been trying to get her down for a month but we think she put a Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of the canvas. Let’s get downstairs, quick, before they all wake up again."
"But what’s a portrait of your mother doing here?"
"Hasn’t anyone told you? This was my parents’ house,” said Sirius. “But I’m the last Black left, so it’s mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore for headquarters — about the only useful thing I’ve been able to do."
"Harry!” Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet him and shaking his hand vigorously. “Good to see you!"
"Journey all right, Harry?” Bill called, trying to gather up twelve scrolls at once. “Mad-Eye didn’t make you come via Greenland, then?"
"He tried,” said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and immediately sending a candle toppling onto the last piece of parchment. “Oh no — sorry —"
"Here, dear,"
"This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly at the end of meetings,"
"Evanesco!"
"Sit down, Harry,” said Sirius. “You’ve met Mundungus, haven’t you?"
"Some’n say m’ name?” Mundungus mumbled sleepily. “I ’gree with Sirius . . ."
"The meeting’s over, Dung,” said Sirius, as they all sat down around him at the table. “Harry’s arrived."
"Eh?” said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry through his matted ginger hair. “Blimey, so ’e ’as. Yeah . . . you all right, ’arry?"
"Yeah,"
"Owe you a ’pology,"
"For the last time, Mundungus,” called Mrs. Weasley, “will you please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, especially not when we’re about to eat!"
"Ah,” said Mundungus. “Right. Sorry, Molly."
"And if you want dinner before midnight I’ll need a hand,” Mrs. Weasley said to the room at large. “No, you can stay where you are, Harry dear, you’ve had a long journey —"
"What can I do, Molly?"
"Er — no, it’s all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, you’ve done enough today —"
"No, no, I want to help!"
"Seen old Figgy since?"
"No,” said Harry, “I haven’t seen anyone."
"See, I wouldn’t ’ave left,” said Mundungus, leaning forward, a pleading note in his voice, “but I ’ad a business opportunity —"
"Had a good summer so far?"
"No, it’s been lousy,"
"Don’t know what you’re complaining about, myself."
"What?"
"Personally, I’d have welcomed a dementor attack. A deadly struggle for my soul would have broken the monotony nicely. You think you’ve had it bad, at least you’ve been able to get out and about, stretch your legs, get into a few fights. . . . I’ve been stuck inside for a month."
"How come?"
"Because the Ministry of Magic’s still after me, and Voldemort will know all about me being an Animagus by now, Wormtail will have told him, so my big disguise is useless. There’s not much I can do for the Order of the Phoenix . . . or so Dumbledore feels."
"At least you’ve known what’s been going on,"
"Oh yeah,” said Sirius sarcastically. “Listening to Snape’s reports, having to take all his snide hints that he’s out there risking his life while I’m sat on my backside here having a nice comfortable time . . . asking me how the cleaning’s going —"
"What cleaning?"
"Trying to make this place fit for human habitation,” said Sirius, waving a hand around the dismal kitchen. “No one’s lived here for ten years, not since my dear mother died, unless you count her old house-elf, and he’s gone round the twist, hasn’t cleaned anything in ages —"
"Sirius?” said Mundungus, who did not appear to have paid any attention to this conversation, but had been minutely examining an empty goblet. “This solid silver, mate?"
"Yes,” said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. “Finest fifteenth-century goblin-wrought silver, embossed with the Black family crest."
"That’d come off, though,"
"Fred — George — NO, JUST CARRY THEM!"
"FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE!” screamed Mrs. Weasley. “THERE WAS NO NEED — I’VE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS — JUST BECAUSE YOU’RE ALLOWED TO USE MAGIC NOW YOU DON’T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EVERY TINY LITTLE THING!"
"We were just trying to save a bit of time!” said Fred, hurrying forward and wrenching the bread knife out of the table. “Sorry Sirius, mate — didn’t mean to —"
"Boys,” Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into the middle of the table, “your mother’s right, you’re supposed to show a sense of responsibility now you’ve come of age —"
"— none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!” Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh flagon of butterbeer onto the table and spilling almost as much again. “Bill didn’t feel the need to Apparate every few feet! Charlie didn’t Charm everything he met! Percy —"
"Let’s eat,"
"It looks wonderful, Molly,"
"I’ve been meaning to tell you, there’s something trapped in that writing desk in the drawing room, it keeps rattling and shaking. Of course, it could just be a boggart, but I thought we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at it before we let it out."
"Whatever you like,"
"The curtains in there are full of doxies too,” Mrs. Weasley went on. “I thought we might try and tackle them tomorrow."
"I look forward to it,"
"Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks . . ."
"They’re not giving anything away yet,” said Bill. “I still can’t work out whether they believe he’s back or not. ’Course, they might prefer not to take sides at all. Keep out of it."
"I’m sure they’d never go over to You-Know-Who,” said Mr. Weasley, shaking his head. “They’ve suffered losses too. Remember that goblin family he murdered last time, somewhere near Nottingham?"
"I think it depends what they’re offered,” said Lupin. “And I’m not talking about gold; if they’re offered freedoms we’ve been denying them for centuries they’re going to be tempted. Have you still not had any luck with Ragnok, Bill?"
"He’s feeling pretty anti-wizard at the moment,” said Bill. “He hasn’t stopped raging about the Bagman business, he reckons the Ministry did a cover-up, those goblins never got their gold from him, you know —"
". . . and then,” choked Mundungus, tears running down his face, “and then, if you’ll believe it, ’e says to me, ’e says, ‘’ere, Dung, where didja get all them toads from? ’Cos some son of a Bludger’s gone and nicked all mine!’ And I says, ‘Nicked all your toads, Will, what next? So you’ll be wanting some more, then?’ And if you’ll believe me, lads, the gormless gargoyle buys all ’is own toads back orf me for twice what ’e paid in the first place —"
"I don’t think we need to hear any more of your business dealings, thank you very much, Mundungus,"
"Beg pardon, Molly,” said Mundungus at once, wiping his eyes and winking at Harry. “But, you know, Will nicked ’em orf Warty Harris in the first place so I wasn’t really doing nothing wrong —"
"I don’t know where you learned about right and wrong, Mundungus, but you seem to have missed a few crucial lessons,"
"Molly doesn’t approve of Mundungus,"
"How come he’s in the Order?"
"He’s useful,” Sirius muttered. “Knows all the crooks — well, he would, seeing as he’s one himself. But he’s also very loyal to Dumbledore, who helped him out of a tight spot once. It pays to have someone like Dung around, he hears things we don’t. But Molly thinks inviting him to stay for dinner is going too far. She hasn’t forgiven him for slipping off duty when he was supposed to be tailing you."
"Nearly time for bed, I think,"
"Not just yet, Molly,” said Sirius, pushing away his empty plate and turning to look at Harry. “You know, I’m surprised at you. I thought the first thing you’d do when you got here would be to start asking questions about Voldemort."
"I did!” said Harry indignantly. “I asked Ron and Hermione but they said we’re not allowed in the Order, so —"
"And they’re quite right,” said Mrs. Weasley. “You’re too young."
"Since when did someone have to be in the Order of the Phoenix to ask questions?” asked Sirius. “Harry’s been trapped in that Muggle house for a month. He’s got the right to know what’s been happen —"
"Hang on!"
"How come Harry gets his questions answered?"
"We’ve been trying to get stuff out of you for a month and you haven’t told us a single stinking thing!"
"‘You’re too young, you’re not in the Order,’” said Fred, in a high-pitched voice that sounded uncannily like his mother’s. “Harry’s not even of age!"
"It’s not my fault you haven’t been told what the Order’s doing,” said Sirius calmly. “That’s your parents’ decision. Harry, on the other hand —"
"It’s not down to you to decide what’s good for Harry!” said Mrs. Weasley sharply. Her normally kindly face looked dangerous. “You haven’t forgotten what Dumbledore said, I suppose?"
"Which bit?"
"The bit about not telling Harry more than he needs to know,"
"I don’t intend to tell him more than he needs to know, Molly,” said Sirius. “But as he was the one who saw Voldemort come back” (again, there was a collective shudder around the table at the name), “he has more right than most to —"
"He’s not a member of the Order of the Phoenix!” said Mrs. Weasley. “He’s only fifteen and —"
"— and he’s dealt with as much as most in the Order,” said Sirius, “and more than some —"
"No one’s denying what he’s done!” said Mrs. Weasley, her voice rising, her fists trembling on the arms of her chair. “But he’s still —"
"He’s not a child!"
"He’s not an adult either!” said Mrs. Weasley, the color rising in her cheeks. “He’s not James, Sirius!"
"I’m perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly,"
"I’m not sure you are!” said Mrs. Weasley. “Sometimes, the way you talk about him, it’s as though you think you’ve got your best friend back!"
"What’s wrong with that?"
"What’s wrong, Harry, is that you are not your father, however much you might look like him!” said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes still boring into Sirius. “You are still at school and adults responsible for you should not forget it!"
"Meaning I’m an irresponsible godfather?"
"Meaning you’ve been known to act rashly, Sirius, which is why Dumbledore keeps reminding you to stay at home and —"
"We’ll leave my instructions from Dumbledore out of this, if you please!"
"Arthur!” said Mrs. Weasley, rounding on her husband. “Arthur, back me up!"
"Dumbledore knows the position has changed, Molly. He accepts that Harry will have to be filled in to a certain extent now that he is staying at headquarters —"
"Yes, but there’s a difference between that and inviting him to ask whatever he likes!"
"Personally,” said Lupin quietly, looking away from Sirius at last, as Mrs. Weasley turned quickly to him, hopeful that finally she was about to get an ally, “I think it better that Harry gets the facts — not all the facts, Molly, but the general picture — from us, rather than a garbled version from . . . others."
"Well,” said Mrs. Weasley, breathing deeply and looking around the table for support that did not come, “well . . . I can see I’m going to be overruled. I’ll just say this: Dumbledore must have had his reasons for not wanting Harry to know too much, and speaking as someone who has got Harry’s best interests at heart —"
"He’s not your son,"
"He’s as good as,” said Mrs. Weasley fiercely. “Who else has he got?"
"He’s got me!"
"Yes,” said Mrs. Weasley, her lip curling. “The thing is, it’s been rather difficult for you to look after him while you’ve been locked up in Azkaban, hasn’t it?"
"Molly, you’re not the only person at this table who cares about Harry,” said Lupin sharply. “Sirius, sit down."
"I think Harry ought to be allowed a say in this,” Lupin continued. “He’s old enough to decide for himself."
"I want to know what’s been going on,"
"Very well,” said Mrs. Weasley, her voice cracking. “Ginny — Ron — Hermione — Fred — George — I want you out of this kitchen, now."
"We’re of age!"
"If Harry’s allowed, why can’t I?"
"Mum, I want to!"
"NO!” shouted Mrs. Weasley, standing up, her eyes overbright. “I absolutely forbid —"
"Molly, you can’t stop Fred and George,” said Mr. Weasley wearily. “They are of age —"
"They’re still at school —"
"But they’re legally adults now,"
"I — oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, but Ron —"
"Harry’ll tell me and Hermione everything you say anyway!” said Ron hotly. “Won’t — won’t you?"
"’Course I will,"
"Fine!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “Fine! Ginny — BED!"
"Okay, Harry . . . what do you want to know?"
"Where’s Voldemort? What’s he doing? I’ve been trying to watch the Muggle news,” he said, ignoring the renewed shudders and winces at the name, “and there hasn’t been anything that looks like him yet, no funny deaths or anything —"
"That’s because there haven’t been any suspicious deaths yet,” said Sirius, “not as far as we know, anyway. . . . And we know quite a lot."
"More than he thinks we do anyway,"
"How come he’s stopped killing people?"
"Because he doesn’t want to draw attention to himself at the moment,” said Sirius. “It would be dangerous for him. His comeback didn’t come off quite the way he wanted it to, you see. He messed it up."
"Or rather, you messed it up for him,"
"How?"
"You weren’t supposed to survive!” said Sirius. “Nobody apart from his Death Eaters was supposed to know he’d come back. But you survived to bear witness."
"And the very last person he wanted alerted to his return the moment he got back was Dumbledore,” said Lupin. “And you made sure Dumbledore knew at once."
"How has that helped?"
"Are you kidding?” said Bill incredulously. “Dumbledore was the only one You-Know-Who was ever scared of!"
"Thanks to you, Dumbledore was able to recall the Order of the Phoenix about an hour after Voldemort returned,"
"So what’s the Order been doing?"
"Working as hard as we can to make sure Voldemort can’t carry out his plans,"
"How d’you know what his plans are?"
"Dumbledore’s got a shrewd idea,” said Lupin, “and Dumbledore’s shrewd ideas normally turn out to be accurate."
"So what does Dumbledore reckon he’s planning?"
"Well, firstly, he wants to build up his army again,” said Sirius. “In the old days he had huge numbers at his command; witches and wizards he’d bullied or bewitched into following him, his faithful Death Eaters, a great variety of Dark creatures. You heard him planning to recruit the giants; well, they’ll be just one group he’s after. He’s certainly not going to try and take on the Ministry of Magic with only a dozen Death Eaters."
"So you’re trying to stop him getting more followers?"
"We’re doing our best,"
"How?"
"Well, the main thing is to try and convince as many people as possible that You-Know-Who really has returned, to put them on their guard,” said Bill. “It’s proving tricky, though."
"Why?"
"Because of the Ministry’s attitude,” said Tonks. “You saw Cornelius Fudge after You-Know-Who came back, Harry. Well, he hasn’t shifted his position at all. He’s absolutely refusing to believe it’s happened."
"But why?” said Harry desperately. “Why’s he being so stupid? If Dumbledore —"
"Ah, well, you’ve put your finger on the problem,” said Mr. Weasley with a wry smile. “Dumbledore."
"Fudge is frightened of him, you see,"
"Frightened of Dumbledore?"
"Frightened of what he’s up to,” said Mr. Weasley. “You see, Fudge thinks Dumbledore’s plotting to overthrow him. He thinks Dumbledore wants to be Minister of Magic."
"But Dumbledore doesn’t want —"
"Of course he doesn’t,” said Mr. Weasley. “He’s never wanted the Minister’s job, even though a lot of people wanted him to take it when Millicent Bagnold retired. Fudge came to power instead, but he’s never quite forgotten how much popular support Dumbledore had, even though Dumbledore never applied for the job."
"Deep down, Fudge knows Dumbledore’s much cleverer than he is, a much more powerful wizard, and in the early days of his Ministry he was forever asking Dumbledore for help and advice,” said Lupin. “But it seems that he’s become fond of power now, and much more confident. He loves being Minister of Magic, and he’s managed to convince himself that he’s the clever one and Dumbledore’s simply stirring up trouble for the sake of it."
"How can he think that?” said Harry angrily. “How can he think Dumbledore would just make it all up — that I’d make it all up?"
"Because accepting that Voldemort’s back would mean trouble like the Ministry hasn’t had to cope with for nearly fourteen years,” said Sirius bitterly. “Fudge just can’t bring himself to face it. It’s so much more comfortable to convince himself Dumbledore’s lying to destabilize him."
"You see the problem,” said Lupin. “While the Ministry insists there is nothing to fear from Voldemort, it’s hard to convince people he’s back, especially as they really don’t want to believe it in the first place. What’s more, the Ministry’s leaning heavily on the Daily Prophet not to report any of what they’re calling Dumbledore’s rumor-mongering, so most of the Wizarding community are completely unaware anything’s happened, and that makes them easy targets for the Death Eaters if they’re using the Imperius Curse."
"But you’re telling people, aren’t you?” said Harry, looking around at Mr. Weasley, Sirius, Bill, Mundungus, Lupin, and Tonks. “You’re letting people know he’s back?"
"Well, as everyone thinks I’m a mad mass murderer and the Ministry’s put a ten-thousand-Galleon price on my head, I can hardly stroll up the street and start handing out leaflets, can I?"
"And I’m not a very popular dinner guest with most of the community,” said Lupin. “It’s an occupational hazard of being a werewolf."
"Tonks and Arthur would lose their jobs at the Ministry if they started shooting their mouths off,” said Sirius, “and it’s very important for us to have spies inside the Ministry, because you can bet Voldemort will have them."
"We’ve managed to convince a couple of people, though,” said Mr. Weasley. “Tonks here, for one — she’s too young to have been in the Order of the Phoenix last time, and having Aurors on our side is a huge advantage — Kingsley Shacklebolt’s been a real asset too. He’s in charge of the hunt for Sirius, so he’s been feeding the Ministry information that Sirius is in Tibet."
"But if none of you’s putting the news out that Voldemort’s back —"
"Who said none of us was putting the news out?” said Sirius. “Why d’you think Dumbledore’s in such trouble?"
"What d’you mean?"
"They’re trying to discredit him,” said Lupin. “Didn’t you see the Daily Prophet last week? They reported that he’d been voted out of the Chairmanship of the International Confederation of Wizards because he’s getting old and losing his grip, but it’s not true, he was voted out by Ministry wizards after he made a speech announcing Voldemort’s return. They’ve demoted him from Chief Warlock on the Wizengamot — that’s the Wizard High Court — and they’re talking about taking away his Order of Merlin, First Class, too."
"But Dumbledore says he doesn’t care what they do as long as they don’t take him off the Chocolate Frog cards,"
"It’s no laughing matter,” said Mr. Weasley shortly. “If he carries on defying the Ministry like this, he could end up in Azkaban and the last thing we want is Dumbledore locked up. While You-Know-Who knows Dumbledore’s out there and wise to what he’s up to, he’s going to go cautiously for a while. If Dumbledore’s out of the way — well, You-Know-Who will have a clear field."
"But if Voldemort’s trying to recruit more Death Eaters, it’s bound to get out that he’s come back, isn’t it?"
"Voldemort doesn’t march up to people’s houses and bang on their front doors, Harry,” said Sirius. “He tricks, jinxes, and blackmails them. He’s well-practiced at operating in secrecy. In any case, gathering followers is only one thing he’s interested in, he’s got other plans too, plans he can put into operation very quietly indeed, and he’s concentrating on them at the moment."
"What’s he after apart from followers?"
"Stuff he can only get by stealth."
"Like a weapon. Something he didn’t have last time."
"When he was powerful before?"
"Yes."
"Like what kind of weapon?” said Harry. “Something worse than the Avada Kedavra — ?"
"That’s enough."
"I want you in bed, now. All of you,"
"You can’t boss us —"
"Watch me,” snarled Mrs. Weasley. She was trembling slightly as she looked at Sirius. “You’ve given Harry plenty of information. Any more and you might just as well induct him into the Order straightaway."
"Why not?” said Harry quickly. “I’ll join, I want to join, I want to fight —"
"No."
"The Order is comprised only of overage wizards,” he said. “Wizards who have left school,” he added, as Fred and George opened their mouths. “There are dangers involved of which you can have no idea, any of you . . . I think Molly’s right, Sirius. We’ve said enough."
"I want you all to go straight to bed, no talking,” she said as they reached the first landing. “We’ve got a busy day tomorrow. I expect Ginny’s asleep,” she added to Hermione, “so try not to wake her up."
"Asleep, yeah, right,” said Fred in an undertone, after Hermione bade them good night and they were climbing to the next floor. “If Ginny’s not lying awake waiting for Hermione to tell her everything they said downstairs, then I’m a flobberworm . . ."
"All right, Ron, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley on the second landing, pointing them into their bedroom. “Off to bed with you."
"’Night,"
"Sleep tight,"
"We can’t let them out to hunt every night,” Ron explained as he pulled on his maroon pajamas. “Dumbledore doesn’t want too many owls swooping around the square, thinks it’ll look suspicious. Oh yeah . . . I forgot . . ."
"What’re you doing that for?"
"Kreacher,” said Ron as he turned off the light. “First night I was here he came wandering in at three in the morning. Trust me, you don’t want to wake up and find him prowling around your room. Anyway . . .” He got into his bed, settled down under the covers, then turned to look at Harry in the darkness. Harry could see his outline by the moonlight filtering in through the grimy window. “What d’you reckon?"
"Well, they didn’t tell us much we couldn’t have guessed, did they?” he said, thinking of all that had been said downstairs. “I mean, all they’ve really said is that the Order’s trying to stop people joining Vol —"
"— demort ,”said Harry firmly. “When are you going to start using his name? Sirius and Lupin do."
"Yeah, you’re right,” he said. “We already knew nearly everything they told us, from using the Extendable Ears. The only new bit was —"
"OUCH!"
"Keep your voice down, Ron, or Mum’ll be back up here."
"You two just Apparated on my knees!"
"Yeah, well, it’s harder in the dark —"
"So, got there yet?"
"The weapon Sirius mentioned?"
"Let slip, more like,” said Fred with relish, now sitting next to Ron. “We didn’t hear about that on the old Extendables, did we?"
"What d’you reckon it is?"
"Could be anything,"
"But there can’t be anything worse than the Avada Kedavra curse, can there?” said Ron. “What’s worse than death?"
"Maybe it’s something that can kill loads of people at once,"
"Maybe it’s some particularly painful way of killing people,"
"He’s got the Cruciatus Curse for causing pain,” said Harry. “He doesn’t need anything more efficient than that."
"So who d’you think’s got it now?"
"I hope it’s our side,"
"If it is, Dumbledore’s probably keeping it,"
"Where?” said Ron quickly. “Hogwarts?"
"Bet it is!” said George. “That’s where he hid the Sorcerer’s Stone!"
"A weapon’s going to be a lot bigger than the Stone, though!"
"Not necessarily,"
"Yeah, size is no guarantee of power,” said George. “Look at Ginny."
"What d’you mean?"
"You’ve never been on the receiving end of one of her Bat-Bogey Hexes, have you?"
"Shhh!” said Fred, half-rising from the bed. “Listen!"
"Mum,"
"She doesn’t trust us at all, you know,"
"Beauties, aren’ they, eh, Harry? We’ll be studyin’ weapons this term . . ."
"Mum says get up, your breakfast is in the kitchen and then she needs you in the drawing room, there are loads more doxies than she thought and she’s found a nest of dead puffskeins under the sofa."
"Cover your faces and take a spray,” Mrs. Weasley said to Harry and Ron the moment she saw them, pointing to two more bottles of black liquid standing on a spindle-legged table. “It’s Doxycide. I’ve never seen an infestation this bad — what that house-elf’s been doing for the last ten years —"
"Kreacher’s really old, he probably couldn’t manage —"
"You’d be surprised what Kreacher can manage when he wants to, Hermione,” said Sirius, who had just entered the room carrying a bloodstained bag of what appeared to be dead rats. “I’ve just been feeding Buckbeak,” he added, in reply to Harry’s inquiring look. “I keep him upstairs in my mother’s bedroom. Anyway . . . this writing desk . . ."
"Well, Molly, I’m pretty sure this is a boggart,” said Sirius, peering through the keyhole, “but perhaps we ought to let Mad-Eye have a shifty at it before we let it out — knowing my mother it could be something much worse."
"Right you are, Sirius,"
"I keep telling them not to ring the doorbell!” said Sirius exasperatedly, hurrying back out of the room. They heard him thundering down the stairs as Mrs. Black’s screeches echoed up through the house once more: “Stains of dishonor, filthy half-breeds, blood traitors, children of filth . . ."
"Close the door, please, Harry,"
"Hestia’s just relieved me, so she’s got Moody’s cloak now, thought I’d leave a report for Dumbledore . . ."
"Right, you lot, you need to be careful, because doxies bite and their teeth are poisonous. I’ve got a bottle of antidote here, but I’d rather nobody needed it."
"When I say the word, start spraying immediately,” she said. “They’ll come flying out at us, I expect, but it says on the sprays one good squirt will paralyze them. When they’re immobilized, just throw them in this bucket."
"All right — squirt!"
"Fred, what are you doing?” said Mrs. Weasley sharply. “Spray that at once and throw it away!"
"Right-o,"
"We want to experiment with doxy venom for our Skiving Snackboxes,"
"What are Skiving Snackboxes?"
"Range of sweets to make you ill,” George whispered, keeping a wary eye on Mrs. Weasley’s back. “Not seriously ill, mind, just ill enough to get you out of a class when you feel like it. Fred and I have been developing them this summer. They’re double-ended, color-coded chews. If you eat the orange half of the Puking Pastilles, you throw up. Moment you’ve been rushed out of the lesson for the hospital wing, you swallow the purple half —"
"‘— which restores you to full fitness, enabling you to pursue the leisure activity of your own choice during an hour that would otherwise have been devoted to unprofitable boredom.’ That’s what we’re putting in the adverts, anyway,” whispered Fred, who had edged over out of Mrs. Weasley’s line of vision and was now sweeping a few stray doxies from the floor and adding them to his pocket. “But they still need a bit of work. At the moment our testers are having a bit of trouble stopping puking long enough to swallow the purple end."
"Testers?"
"Us,” said Fred. “We take it in turns. George did the Fainting Fancies — we both tried the Nosebleed Nougat —"
"Mum thought we’d been dueling,"
"Joke shop still on, then?"
"Well, we haven’t had a chance to get premises yet,” said Fred, dropping his voice even lower as Mrs. Weasley mopped her brow with her scarf before returning to the attack, “so we’re running it as a mail-order service at the moment. We put advertisements in the Daily Prophet last week."
"All thanks to you, mate,” said George. “But don’t worry . . . Mum hasn’t got a clue. She won’t read the Daily Prophet anymore, ’cause of it telling lies about you and Dumbledore."
"I think we’ll tackle those after lunch."
"Stay here,” she said firmly, snatching up the bag of rats as Mrs. Black’s screeches started up again from down below. “I’ll bring up some sandwiches."
"Mundungus!” said Hermione. “What’s he brought all those cauldrons for?"
"Probably looking for a safe place to keep them,” said Harry. “Isn’t that what he was doing the night he was supposed to be tailing me? Picking up dodgy cauldrons?"
"Yeah, you’re right!” said Fred, as the front door opened; Mundungus heaved his cauldrons through it and disappeared from view. “Blimey, Mum won’t like that . . ."
"Mundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley,” Fred muttered, frowning with concentration. “Can’t hear properly . . . d’you reckon we can risk the Extendable Ears?"
"Might be worth it,” said George. “I could sneak upstairs and get a pair —"
"WE ARE NOT RUNNING A HIDEOUT FOR STOLEN GOODS!"
"I love hearing Mum shouting at someone else,” said Fred, with a satisfied smile on his face as he opened the door an inch or so to allow Mrs. Weasley’s voice to permeate the room better. “It makes such a nice change."
"— COMPLETELY IRRESPONSIBLE, AS IF WE HAVEN’T GOT ENOUGH TO WORRY ABOUT WITHOUT YOU DRAGGING STOLEN CAULDRONS INTO THE HOUSE —"
"The idiots are letting her get into her stride,” said George, shaking his head. “You’ve got to head her off early, otherwise she builds up a head of steam and goes on for hours. And she’s been dying to have a go at Mundungus ever since he sneaked off when he was supposed to be following you, Harry — and there goes Sirius’s mum again —"
". . . Smells like a drain and a criminal to boot, but she’s no better, nasty old blood traitor with her brats messing up my Mistress’s house, oh my poor Mistress, if she knew, if she knew the scum they’ve let in her house, what would she say to old Kreacher, oh the shame of it, Mudbloods and werewolves and traitors and thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can he do . . ."
"Hello, Kreacher,"
"Kreacher did not see Young Master,” he said, turning around and bowing to Fred. Still facing the carpet, he added, perfectly audibly, “Nasty little brat of a blood traitor it is."
"Sorry?” said George. “Didn’t catch that last bit."
"Kreacher said nothing,” said the elf, with a second bow to George, adding in a clear undertone, “and there’s its twin, unnatural little beasts they are."
". . . and there’s the Mudblood, standing there bold as brass, oh if my Mistress knew, oh how she’d cry, and there’s a new boy, Kreacher doesn’t know his name, what is he doing here, Kreacher doesn’t know . . ."
"This is Harry, Kreacher,” said Hermione tentatively. “Harry Potter."
"The Mudblood is talking to Kreacher as though she is my friend, if Kreacher’s Mistress saw him in such company, oh what would she say —"
"Don’t call her a Mudblood!"
"It doesn’t matter,” Hermione whispered, “he’s not in his right mind, he doesn’t know what he’s —"
"Don’t kid yourself, Hermione, he knows exactly what he’s saying,"
"Is it true? Is it Harry Potter? Kreacher can see the scar, it must be true, that’s that boy who stopped the Dark Lord, Kreacher wonders how he did it —"
"Don’t we all, Kreacher?"
"What do you want anyway?"
"Kreacher is cleaning,"
"A likely story,"
"Stand up straight,” said Sirius impatiently. “Now, what are you up to?"
"Kreacher is cleaning,” the elf repeated. “Kreacher lives to serve the noble house of Black —"
"— and it’s getting blacker every day, it’s filthy,"
"Master always liked his little joke,” said Kreacher, bowing again, and continuing in an undertone, “Master was a nasty ungrateful swine who broke his mother’s heart —"
"My mother didn’t have a heart, Kreacher,” Sirius snapped. “She kept herself alive out of pure spite."
"Whatever Master says,” then muttered furiously, “Master is not fit to wipe slime from his mother’s boots, oh my poor Mistress, what would she say if she saw Kreacher serving him, how she hated him, what a disappointment he was —"
"I asked you what you were up to,” said Sirius coldly. “Every time you show up pretending to be cleaning, you sneak something off to your room so we can’t throw it out."
"Kreacher would never move anything from its proper place in Master’s house,” said the elf, then muttered very fast, “Mistress would never forgive Kreacher if the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries it’s been in the family, Kreacher must save it, Kreacher will not let Master and the blood traitors and the brats destroy it —"
"I thought it might be that,” said Sirius, casting a disdainful look at the opposite wall. “She’ll have put another Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of it, I don’t doubt, but if I can get rid of it I certainly will. Now go away, Kreacher."
"— comes back from Azkaban ordering Kreacher around, oh my poor Mistress, what would she say if she saw the house now, scum living in it, her treasures thrown out, she swore he was no son of hers and he’s back, they say he’s a murderer too —"
"Keep muttering and I will be a murderer!"
"Sirius, he’s not right in the head,” said Hermione pleadingly, “I don’t think he realizes we can hear him."
"He’s been alone too long,” said Sirius, “taking mad orders from my mother’s portrait and talking to himself, but he was always a foul little —"
"If you just set him free,” said Hermione hopefully, “maybe —"
"We can’t set him free, he knows too much about the Order,” said Sirius curtly. “And anyway, the shock would kill him. You suggest to him that he leaves this house, see how he takes it."
"TOUJOURS PUR"
"You’re not on here!"
"I used to be there,” said Sirius, pointing at a small, round, charred hole in the tapestry, rather like a cigarette burn. “My sweet old mother blasted me off after I ran away from home — Kreacher’s quite fond of muttering the story under his breath."
"You ran away from home?"
"When I was about sixteen,” said Sirius. “I’d had enough."
"Where did you go?"
"Your dad’s place,” said Sirius. “Your grandparents were really good about it; they sort of adopted me as a second son. Yeah, I camped out at your dad’s during the school holidays, and then when I was seventeen I got a place of my own, my Uncle Alphard had left me a decent bit of gold — he’s been wiped off here too, that’s probably why — anyway, after that I looked after myself. I was always welcome at Mr. and Mrs. Potter’s for Sunday lunch, though."
"But . . . why did you . . . ?"
"Leave?” Sirius smiled bitterly and ran a hand through his long, unkempt hair. “Because I hated the whole lot of them: my parents, with their pure-blood mania, convinced that to be a Black made you practically royal . . . my idiot brother, soft enough to believe them . . . that’s him."
"He was younger than me,” said Sirius, “and a much better son, as I was constantly reminded."
"But he died,"
"Yeah,” said Sirius. “Stupid idiot . . . he joined the Death Eaters."
"You’re kidding!"
"Come on, Harry, haven’t you seen enough of this house to tell what kind of wizards my family were?"
"Were — were your parents Death Eaters as well?"
"No, no, but believe me, they thought Voldemort had the right idea, they were all for the purification of the Wizarding race, getting rid of Muggle-borns and having purebloods in charge. They weren’t alone either, there were quite a few people, before Voldemort showed his true colors, who thought he had the right idea about things. . . . They got cold feet when they saw what he was prepared to do to get power, though. But I bet my parents thought Regulus was a right little hero for joining up at first."
"Was he killed by an Auror?"
"Oh no,” said Sirius. “No, he was murdered by Voldemort. Or on Voldemort’s orders, more likely, I doubt Regulus was ever important enough to be killed by Voldemort in person. From what I found out after he died, he got in so far, then panicked about what he was being asked to do and tried to back out. Well, you don’t just hand in your resignation to Voldemort. It’s a lifetime of service or death."
"Lunch,"
"I haven’t looked at this for years. There’s Phineas Nigellus . . . my great-great-grandfather, see? Least popular headmaster Hogwarts ever had . . . and Araminta Meliflua . . . cousin of my mother’s . . . tried to force through a Ministry Bill to make Muggle-hunting legal . . . and dear Aunt Elladora . . . she started the family tradition of beheading house-elves when they got too old to carry tea trays . . . of course, anytime the family produced someone halfway decent they were disowned. I see Tonks isn’t on here. Maybe that’s why Kreacher won’t take orders from her — he’s supposed to do whatever anyone in the family asks him . . ."
"You and Tonks are related?"
"Oh yeah, her mother, Andromeda, was my favorite cousin,” said Sirius, examining the tapestry carefully. “No, Andromeda’s not on here either, look —"
"Andromeda’s sisters are still here because they made lovely, respectable pure-blood marriages, but Andromeda married a Muggle-born, Ted Tonks, so —"
"You’re related to the Malfoys!"
"The pure-blood families are all interrelated,” said Sirius. “If you’re only going to let your sons and daughters marry purebloods your choice is very limited, there are hardly any of us left. Molly and I are cousins by marriage and Arthur’s something like my second cousin once removed. But there’s no point looking for them on here — if ever a family was a bunch of blood traitors it’s the Weasleys."
"Lestrange . . ."
"They’re in Azkaban,"
"Bellatrix and her husband Rodolphus came in with Barty Crouch, Junior,” said Sirius in the same brusque voice. “Rodolphus’s brother, Rabastan, was with them too."
"You never said she was your —"
"Does it matter if she’s my cousin?” snapped Sirius. “As far as I’m concerned, they’re not my family. She’s certainly not my family. I haven’t seen her since I was your age, unless you count a glimpse of her coming in to Azkaban. D’you think I’m proud of having relatives like her?"
"Sorry,” said Harry quickly, “I didn’t mean — I was just surprised, that’s all —"
"It doesn’t matter, don’t apologize,” Sirius mumbled at once. He turned away from the tapestry, his hands deep in his pockets. “I don’t like being back here,” he said, staring across the drawing room. “I never thought I’d be stuck in this house again."
"It’s ideal for headquarters, of course,” Sirius said. “My father put every security measure known to Wizard-kind on it when he lived here. It’s Unplottable, so Muggles could never come and call — as if they’d have wanted to — and now Dumbledore’s added his protection, you’d be hard put to find a safer house anywhere. Dumbledore’s Secret-Keeper for the Order, you know — nobody can find headquarters unless he tells them personally where it is — that note Moody showed you last night, that was from Dumbledore . . .” Sirius gave a short, barklike laugh. “If my parents could see the use it was being put to now . . . well, my mother’s portrait should give you some idea . . ."
"I wouldn’t mind if I could just get out occasionally and do something useful. I’ve asked Dumbledore whether I can escort you to your hearing — as Snuffles, obviously — so I can give you a bit of moral support, what d’you think?"
"Don’t worry,” Sirius said. Harry looked up and realized that Sirius had been watching him. “I’m sure they’re going to clear you, there’s definitely something in the International Statute of Secrecy about being allowed to use magic to save your own life."
"But if they do expel me,” said Harry, quietly, “can I come back here and live with you?"
"We’ll see."
"I’d feel a lot better about the hearing if I knew I didn’t have to go back to the Dursleys,"
"They must be bad if you prefer this place,"
"Hurry up, you two, or there won’t be any food left,"
"It’s okay,” he said, examining the hand with interest before tapping it lightly with his wand and restoring its skin to normal, “must be Wartcap powder in there."
"Services to the Ministry."
"It means he gave them a load of gold,"
"It was my father’s,” said Sirius, throwing the ring into the sack. “Kreacher wasn’t quite as devoted to him as to my mother, but I still caught him snogging a pair of my father’s old trousers last week."
"cleaning,” but in Harry’s opinion they were really waging war on the house, which was putting up a very good fight, aided and abetted by Kreacher. The house-elf kept appearing wherever they were congregated, his muttering becoming more and more offensive as he attempted to remove anything he could from the rubbish sacks. Sirius went as far as to threaten him with clothes, but Kreacher fixed him with a watery stare and said, “Master must do as Master wishes,” before turning away and muttering very loudly, “but Master will not turn Kreacher away, no, because Kreacher knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is plotting against the Dark Lord, yes, with these Mudbloods and traitors and scum . . ."
"I’ve ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, Harry, and I want you to wash your hair tonight too. A good first impression can work wonders."
"How am I getting there?"
"Arthur’s taking you to work with him,"
"You can wait in my office until it’s time for the hearing,"
"Professor Dumbledore doesn’t think it’s a good idea for Sirius to go with you, and I must say I —"
"— think he’s quite right,"
"When did Dumbledore tell you that?"
"He came last night, when you were in bed,"
"Breakfast,"
"M-m-morning, Harry,” yawned Tonks. Her hair was blonde and curly this morning. “Sleep all right?"
"Yeah,"
"I’ve b-b-been up all night,” she said, with another shuddering yawn. “Come and sit down . . ."
"What do you want, Harry?” Mrs. Weasley called. “Porridge? Muffins? Kippers? Bacon and eggs? Toast?"
"Just — just toast, thanks,"
"What were you saying about Scrimgeour?"
"Oh . . . yeah . . . well, we need to be a bit more careful, he’s been asking Kingsley and me funny questions . . ."
". . . and I’ll have to tell Dumbledore I can’t do night duty tomorrow, I’m just t-t-too tired,"
"I’ll cover for you,” said Mr. Weasley. “I’m okay, I’ve got a report to finish anyway . . ."
"How are you feeling?"
"It’ll all be over soon,” Mr. Weasley said bracingly. “In a few hours’ time you’ll be cleared."
"The hearing’s on my floor, in Amelia Bones’s office. She’s Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and she’s the one who’ll be questioning you."
"Amelia Bones is okay, Harry,” said Tonks earnestly. “She’s fair, she’ll hear you out."
"Don’t lose your temper,” said Sirius abruptly. “Be polite and stick to the facts."
"The law’s on your side,” said Lupin quietly. “Even underage wizards are allowed to use magic in life-threatening situations."
"Doesn’t it ever lie flat?"
"I think we’ll go now,” he said. “We’re a bit early, but I think you’ll be better off there than hanging around here."
"Okay,"
"You’ll be all right, Harry,"
"Good luck,” said Lupin. “I’m sure it will be fine."
"And if it’s not,” said Sirius grimly, “I’ll see to Amelia Bones for you . . ."
"We’ve all got our fingers crossed,"
"Right,” said Harry. “Well . . . see you later then."
"You don’t normally walk to work, do you?"
"No, I usually Apparate,” said Mr. Weasley, “but obviously you can’t, and I think it’s best we arrive in a thoroughly non-magical fashion . . . makes a better impression, given what you’re being disciplined for . . ."
"Simply fabulous,” he whispered, indicating the automatic ticket machines. “Wonderfully ingenious."
"They’re out of order,"
"Yes, but even so . . ."
"Four stops, Harry . . . three stops left now . . . two stops to go, Harry . . ."
"Where are we?” said Mr. Weasley blankly, and for one heart-stopping moment Harry thought they had gotten off at the wrong station despite Mr. Weasley’s continual references to the map; but a second later he said, “Ah yes . . . this way, Harry,"
"Sorry,” he said, “but I never come by train and it all looks rather different from a Muggle perspective. As a matter of fact I’ve never even used the visitor’s entrance before."
"Here we are,” said Mr. Weasley brightly, pointing at an old red telephone box, which was missing several panes of glass and stood before a heavily graffittied wall. “After you, Harry."
"Mr. Weasley, I think this might be out of order too,"
"No, no, I’m sure it’s fine,” said Mr. Weasley, holding the receiver above his head and peering at the dial. “Let’s see . . . six . . .” he dialed the number, “two . . . four . . . and another four . . . and another two . . ."
"Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business."
"Er . . .” said Mr. Weasley, clearly uncertain whether he should talk into the receiver or not; he compromised by holding the mouthpiece to his ear, “Arthur Weasley, Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office, here to escort Harry Potter, who has been asked to attend a disciplinary hearing . . ."
"Thank you,” said the cool female voice. “Visitor, please take the badge and attach it to the front of your robes."
"Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and present your wand for registration at the security desk, which is located at the far end of the Atrium."
"The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant day,"
"This way,"
"Over here, Harry,"
"I’m escorting a visitor,"
"Step over here,"
"Wand,"
"Eleven inches, phoenix-feather core, been in use four years. That correct?"
"Yes,"
"I keep this,” said the wizard, impaling the slip of parchment on a small brass spike. “You get this back,"
"Thank you."
"Hang on . . ."
"Thank you, Eric,"
"All right, Arthur?"
"What’ve you got there, Bob?"
"We’re not sure,” said the wizard seriously. “We thought it was a bog-standard chicken until it started breathing fire. Looks like a serious breach of the Ban on Experimental Breeding to me."
"Level seven, Department of Magical Games and Sports, incorporating the British and Irish Quidditch League Headquarters, Official Gobstones Club, and Ludicrous Patents Office."
"Level six, Department of Magical Transport, incorporating the Floo Network Authority, Broom Regulatory Control, Portkey Office, and Apparation Test Center."
"Just Interdepartmental memos,” Mr. Weasley muttered to him. “We used to use owls, but the mess was unbelievable . . . droppings all over the desks . . ."
"Level five, Department of International Magical Cooperation, incorporating the International Magical Trading Standards Body, the International Magical Office of Law, and the International Confederation of Wizards, British Seats."
"Level four, Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, Being, and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liaison Office, and Pest Advisory Bureau."
"’S’cuse,"
"Level three, Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes, including the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad, Obliviator Headquarters, and Muggle-Worthy Excuse Committee."
"Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration Services."
"This is us, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, and they followed the witch out of the lift into a corridor lined with doors. “My office is on the other side of the floor."
"Mr. Weasley,” said Harry, as they passed a window through which sunlight was streaming, “aren’t we underground?"
"Yes, we are,” said Mr. Weasley, “those are enchanted windows; Magical Maintenance decide what weather we’re getting every day. We had two months of hurricanes last time they were angling for a pay raise. . . . Just round here, Harry."
"Morning, Weasley,” said Kingsley carelessly, as they drew nearer. “I’ve been wanting a word with you, have you got a second?"
"Yes, if it really is a second,” said Mr. Weasley, “I’m in rather a hurry."
"Here,” said Kingsley brusquely to Mr. Weasley, shoving a sheaf of parchment into his hand, “I need as much information as possible on flying Muggle vehicles sighted in the last twelve months. We’ve received information that Black might still be using his old motorcycle."
"Give him the magazine, he might find it interesting.” Then he said in normal tones, “And don’t take too long, Weasley, the delay on that firelegs report held our investigation up for a month."
"If you had read my report you would know that the term is ‘firearms,’” said Mr. Weasley coolly. “And I’m afraid you’ll have to wait for information on motorcycles, we’re extremely busy at the moment.” He dropped his voice and said, “If you can get away before seven, Molly’s making meatballs."
"We haven’t got a window,” said Mr. Weasley apologetically, taking off his bomber jacket and placing it on the back of his chair. “We’ve asked, but they don’t seem to think we need one. Have a seat, Harry, doesn’t look as if Perkins is in yet."
"Ah,” he said, grinning, as he extracted a copy of a magazine entitled The Quibbler from its midst, “yes . . .” He flicked through it. “Yes, he’s right, I’m sure Sirius will find that very amusing — oh dear, what’s this now?"
"‘Third regurgitating public toilet reported in Bethnal Green, kindly investigate immediately.’ This is getting ridiculous . . ."
"A regurgitating toilet?"
"Anti-Muggle pranksters,” said Mr. Weasley, frowning. “We had two last week, one in Wimbledon, one in Elephant and Castle. Muggles are pulling the flush and instead of everything disappearing — well, you can imagine. The poor things keep calling in those — those pumbles, I think they’re called — you know, the ones who mend pipes and things —"
"Plumbers?"
"— exactly, yes, but of course they’re flummoxed. I only hope we can catch whoever’s doing it."
"Will it be Aurors who catch them?"
"Oh no, this is too trivial for Aurors, it’ll be the ordinary Magical Law Enforcement Patrol — ah, Harry, this is Perkins."
"Oh Arthur!” he said desperately, without looking at Harry. “Thank goodness, I didn’t know what to do for the best, whether to wait here for you or not, I’ve just sent an owl to your home but you’ve obviously missed it — an urgent message came ten minutes ago —"
"I know about the regurgitating toilet,"
"No, no, it’s not the toilet, it’s the Potter boy’s hearing — they’ve changed the time and venue — it starts at eight o’clock now and it’s down in old Courtroom Ten —"
"Down in old — but they told me — Merlin’s beard —"
"Quick, Harry, we should have been there five minutes ago!"
"Why have they changed the time?"
"I’ve no idea, but thank goodness we got here so early, if you’d missed it it would have been catastrophic!"
"Come ON!"
"Those courtrooms haven’t been used in years,” said Mr. Weasley angrily. “I can’t think why they’re doing it down there — unless — but no . . ."
"The Atrium,"
"Morning, Arthur,” he said in a sepulchral voice as the lift began to descend. “Don’t often see you down here . . ."
"Urgent business, Bode,"
"Ah, yes,” said Bode, surveying Harry unblinkingly. “Of course."
"Department of Mysteries,"
"Quick, Harry,"
"Down here, down here,” panted Mr. Weasley, taking two steps at a time. “The lift doesn’t even come down this far . . . why they’re doing it there . . ."
"Courtroom . . . ten . . . I think . . . we’re nearly . . . yes."
"Go on,” he panted, pointing his thumb at the door. “Get in there."
"Aren’t — aren’t you coming with — ?"
"No, no, I’m not allowed. Good luck!"
"You’re late."
"Sorry,” said Harry nervously. “I-I didn’t know the time had changed."
"That is not the Wizengamot’s fault,” said the voice. “An owl was sent to you this morning. Take your seat."
"Very well,” said Fudge. “The accused being present — finally — let us begin. Are you ready?"
"Yes, sir,"
"Disciplinary hearing of the twelfth of August,"
"Interrogators: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister of Magic; Amelia Susan Bones, Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement; Dolores Jane Umbridge, Senior Undersecretary to the Minister. Court Scribe, Percy Ignatius Weasley —"
"— Witness for the defense, Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore,"
"Ah,” said Fudge, who looked thoroughly disconcerted. “Dumbledore. Yes. You — er — got our — er — message that the time and — er — place of the hearing had been changed, then?"
"I must have missed it,” said Dumbledore cheerfully. “However, due to a lucky mistake I arrived at the Ministry three hours early, so no harm done."
"Yes — well — I suppose we’ll need another chair — I — Weasley, could you — ?"
"Not to worry, not to worry,"
"Yes,” said Fudge again, shuffling his notes. “Well, then. So. The charges. Yes."
"You are Harry James Potter, of number four, Privet Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey?"
"Yes,"
"You received an official warning from the Ministry for using illegal magic three years ago, did you not?"
"Yes, but —"
"And yet you conjured a Patronus on the night of the second of August?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “but —"
"Knowing that you are not permitted to use magic outside school while you are under the age of seventeen?"
"Yes, but —"
"Knowing that you were in an area full of Muggles?"
"Yes, but —"
"Fully aware that you were in close proximity to a Muggle at the time?"
"Yes,” said Harry angrily, “but I only used it because we were —"
"You produced a fully fledged Patronus?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “because —"
"A corporeal Patronus?"
"A — what?"
"Your Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean to say, it was more than vapor or smoke?"
"Yes,” said Harry, feeling both impatient and slightly desperate, “it’s a stag, it’s always a stag."
"Always?” boomed Madam Bones. “You have produced a Patronus before now?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “I’ve been doing it for over a year —"
"And you are fifteen years old?"
"Yes, and —"
"You learned this at school?"
"Yes, Professor Lupin taught me in my third year, because of the —"
"Impressive,” said Madam Bones, staring down at him, “a true Patronus at that age . . . very impressive indeed."
"It’s not a question of how impressive the magic was,” said Fudge in a testy voice. “In fact, the more impressive the worse it is, I would have thought, given that the boy did it in plain view of a Muggle!"
"I did it because of the dementors!"
"Dementors?” said Madam Bones after a moment, raising her thick eyebrows so that her monocle looked in danger of falling out. “What do you mean, boy?"
"I mean there were two dementors down that alleyway and they went for me and my cousin!"
"Ah,” said Fudge again, smirking unpleasantly as he looked around at the Wizengamot, as though inviting them to share the joke. “Yes. Yes, I thought we’d be hearing something like this."
"Dementors in Little Whinging?” Madam Bones said in tones of great surprise. “I don’t understand —"
"Don’t you, Amelia?” said Fudge, still smirking. “Let me explain. He’s been thinking it through and decided dementors would make a very nice little cover story, very nice indeed. Muggles can’t see dementors, can they, boy? Highly convenient, highly convenient . . . so it’s just your word and no witnesses . . ."
"I’m not lying!” said Harry loudly, over another outbreak of muttering from the court. “There were two of them, coming from opposite ends of the alley, everything went dark and cold and my cousin felt them and ran for it —"
"Enough, enough!” said Fudge with a very supercilious look on his face. “I’m sorry to interrupt what I’m sure would have been a very well-rehearsed story —"
"We do, in fact, have a witness to the presence of dementors in that alleyway,” he said, “other than Dudley Dursley, I mean."
"We haven’t got time to listen to more taradiddles, I’m afraid, Dumbledore. I want this dealt with quickly —"
"I may be wrong,” said Dumbledore pleasantly, “but I am sure that under the Wizengamot Charter of Rights, the accused has the right to present witnesses for his or her case? Isn’t that the policy of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Madam Bones?"
"True,” said Madam Bones. “Perfectly true."
"Oh, very well, very well,” snapped Fudge. “Where is this person?"
"I brought her with me,” said Dumbledore. “She’s just outside the door. Should I — ?"
"No — Weasley, you go,"
"Full name?"
"Arabella Doreen Figg,"
"And who exactly are you?"
"I’m a resident of Little Whinging, close to where Harry Potter lives,"
"We have no record of any witch or wizard living in Little Whinging other than Harry Potter,” said Madam Bones at once. “That situation has always been closely monitored, given . . . given past events."
"I’m a Squib,” said Mrs. Figg. “So you wouldn’t have me registered, would you?"
"A Squib, eh?” said Fudge, eyeing her suspiciously. “We’ll be checking that. You’ll leave details of your parentage with my assistant, Weasley. Incidentally, can Squibs see dementors?"
"Yes, we can!"
"Very well,” he said coolly. “What is your story?"
"I had gone out to buy cat food from the corner shop at the end of Wisteria Walk, shortly after nine on the evening of the second of August,” gabbled Mrs. Figg at once, as though she had learned what she was saying by heart, “when I heard a disturbance down the alleyway between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk. On approaching the mouth of the alleyway I saw dementors running —"
"Running?” said Madam Bones sharply. “Dementors don’t run, they glide."
"That’s what I meant to say,” said Mrs. Figg quickly, patches of pink appearing in her withered cheeks. “Gliding along the alley toward what looked like two boys."
"What did they look like?"
"Well, one was very large and the other one rather skinny —"
"No, no,” said Madam Bones impatiently, “the dementors . . . describe them."
"Oh,” said Mrs. Figg, the pink flush creeping up her neck now. “They were big. Big and wearing cloaks."
"Big and wearing cloaks,” repeated Madam Bones coolly, while Fudge snorted derisively. “I see. Anything else?"
"Yes,” said Mrs. Figg. “I felt them. Everything went cold, and this was a very warm summer’s night, mark you. And I felt . . . as though all happiness had gone from the world . . . and I remembered . . . dreadful things . . ."
"What did the dementors do?"
"They went for the boys,” said Mrs. Figg, her voice stronger and more confident now, the pink flush ebbing away from her face. “One of them had fallen. The other was backing away, trying to repel the dementor. That was Harry. He tried twice and produced silver vapor. On the third attempt, he produced a Patronus, which charged down the first dementor and then, with his encouragement, chased away the second from his cousin. And that . . . that was what happened,"
"That’s what you saw, is it?"
"That was what happened,"
"Very well,” said Fudge. “You may go."
"Not a very convincing witness,"
"Oh, I don’t know,” said Madam Bones in her booming voice. “She certainly described the effects of a dementor attack very accurately. And I can’t imagine why she would say they were there if they weren’t —"
"But dementors wandering into a Muggle suburb and just happening to come across a wizard?” snorted Fudge. “The odds on that must be very, very long, even Bagman wouldn’t have bet —"
"Oh, I don’t think any of us believe the dementors were there by coincidence,"
"And what is that supposed to mean?"
"It means that I think they were ordered there,"
"I think we might have a record of it if someone had ordered a pair of dementors to go strolling through Little Whinging!"
"Not if the dementors are taking orders from someone other than the Ministry of Magic these days,” said Dumbledore calmly. “I have already given you my views on this matter, Cornelius."
"Yes, you have,” said Fudge forcefully, “and I have no reason to believe that your views are anything other than bilge, Dumbledore. The dementors remain in place in Azkaban and are doing everything we ask them to."
"Then,” said Dumbledore, quietly but clearly, “we must ask ourselves why somebody within the Ministry ordered a pair of dementors into that alleyway on the second of August."
"The Chair recognizes Dolores Jane Umbridge, Senior Undersecretary to the Minister,"
"I’m sure I must have misunderstood you, Professor Dumbledore,” she said with a simper that left her big, round eyes as cold as ever. “So silly of me. But it sounded for a teensy moment as though you were suggesting that the Ministry of Magic had ordered an attack on this boy!"
"If it is true that the dementors are taking orders only from the Ministry of Magic, and it is also true that two dementors attacked Harry and his cousin a week ago, then it follows logically that somebody at the Ministry might have ordered the attacks,” said Dumbledore politely. “Of course, these particular dementors may have been outside Ministry control —"
"There are no dementors outside Ministry control!"
"Then undoubtedly the Ministry will be making a full inquiry into why two dementors were so very far from Azkaban and why they attacked without authorization."
"It is not for you to decide what the Ministry of Magic does or does not do, Dumbledore!"
"Of course it isn’t,” said Dumbledore mildly. “I was merely expressing my confidence that this matter will not go uninvestigated."
"I would remind everybody that the behavior of these dementors, if indeed they are not figments of this boy’s imagination, is not the subject of this hearing!” said Fudge. “We are here to examine Harry Potter’s offenses under the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery!"
"Of course we are,” said Dumbledore, “but the presence of dementors in that alleyway is highly relevant. Clause seven of the Decree states that magic may be used before Muggles in exceptional circumstances, and as those exceptional circumstances include situations that threaten the life of the wizard or witch himself, or witches, wizards, or Muggles present at the time of the —"
"We are familiar with clause seven, thank you very much!"
"Of course you are,” said Dumbledore courteously. “Then we are in agreement that Harry’s use of the Patronus Charm in these circumstances falls precisely into the category of exceptional circumstances it describes?"
"If there were dementors, which I doubt —"
"You have heard from an eyewitness,” Dumbledore interrupted. “If you still doubt her truthfulness, call her back, question her again. I am sure she would not object."
"I — that — not —” blustered Fudge, fiddling with the papers before him. “It’s — I want this over with today, Dumbledore!"
"But naturally, you would not care how many times you heard from a witness, if the alternative was a serious miscarriage of justice,"
"Serious miscarriage, my hat!” said Fudge at the top of his voice. “Have you ever bothered to tot up the number of cock-and-bull stories this boy has come out with, Dumbledore, while trying to cover up his flagrant misuse of magic out of school? I suppose you’ve forgotten the Hover Charm he used three years ago —"
"That wasn’t me, it was a house-elf!"
"YOU SEE?” roared Fudge, gesturing flamboyantly in Harry’s direction. “A house-elf! In a Muggle house! I ask you —"
"The house-elf in question is currently in the employ of Hogwarts School,” said Dumbledore. “I can summon him here in an instant to give evidence if you wish."
"I — not — I haven’t got time to listen to house-elves! Anyway, that’s not the only — he blew up his aunt, for God’s sake!"
"And you very kindly did not press charges on that occasion, accepting, I presume, that even the best wizards cannot always control their emotions,"
"And I haven’t even started on what he gets up to at school —"
"— but as the Ministry has no authority to punish Hogwarts students for misdemeanors at school, Harry’s behavior there is not relevant to this inquiry,"
"Oho!” said Fudge. “Not our business what he does at school, eh? You think so?"
"The Ministry does not have the power to expel Hogwarts students, Cornelius, as I reminded you on the night of the second of August,” said Dumbledore. “Nor does it have the right to confiscate wands until charges have been successfully proven, again, as I reminded you on the night of the second of August. In your admirable haste to ensure that the law is upheld, you appear, inadvertently I am sure, to have overlooked a few laws yourself."
"Laws can be changed,"
"Of course they can,” said Dumbledore, inclining his head. “And you certainly seem to be making many changes, Cornelius. Why, in the few short weeks since I was asked to leave the Wizengamot, it has already become the practice to hold a full criminal trial to deal with a simple matter of underage magic!"
"As far as I am aware, however,” Dumbledore continued, “there is no law yet in place that says this court’s job is to punish Harry for every bit of magic he has ever performed. He has been charged with a specific offense and he has presented his defense. All he and I can do now is to await your verdict."
"Those in favor of clearing the accused of all charges?"
"And those in favor of conviction?"
"Very well, very well . . . cleared of all charges."
"Excellent,” said Dumbledore briskly, springing to his feet, pulling out his wand, and causing the two chintz armchairs to vanish. “Well, I must be getting along. Good day to you all."
"Dumbledore didn’t say —"
"Cleared,” Harry said, pulling the door closed behind him, “of all charges!"
"Harry, that’s wonderful! Well, of course, they couldn’t have found you guilty, not on the evidence, but even so, I can’t pretend I wasn’t —"
"Merlin’s beard,” said Mr. Weasley wonderingly, pulling Harry aside to let them all pass, “you were tried by the full court?"
"I think so,"
"Morning, Arthur,"
"I’m going to take you straight back so you can tell the others the good news,” he said, beckoning Harry forward as Percy’s heels disappeared up the stairs to the ninth level. “I’ll drop you off on the way to that toilet in Bethnal Green. Come on . . ."
"So what will you have to do about the toilet?"
"Oh, it’s a simple enough anti-jinx,” said Mr. Weasley as they mounted the stairs, “but it’s not so much having to repair the damage, it’s more the attitude behind the vandalism, Harry. Muggle-baiting might strike some wizards as funny, but it’s an expression of something much deeper and nastier, and I for one —"
"Well, well, well . . . Patronus Potter,"
"The Minister was just telling me about your lucky escape, Potter,” drawled Mr. Malfoy. “Quite astonishing, the way you continue to wriggle out of very tight holes. . . . Snakelike, in fact . . ."
"Yeah,” said Harry, “yeah, I’m good at escaping . . ."
"And Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, Arthur?"
"I work here,"
"Not here, surely?” said Mr. Malfoy, raising his eyebrows and glancing toward the door over Mr. Weasley’s shoulder. “I thought you were up on the second floor. . . . Don’t you do something that involves sneaking Muggle artifacts home and bewitching them?"
"No,"
"What are you doing here anyway?"
"I don’t think private matters between myself and the Minister are any concern of yours, Potter,” said Malfoy, smoothing the front of his robes; Harry distinctly heard the gentle clinking of what sounded like a full pocket of gold. “Really, just because you are Dumbledore’s favorite boy, you must not expect the same indulgence from the rest of us. . . . Shall we go up to your office, then, Minister?"
"Certainly,” said Fudge, turning his back on Harry and Mr. Weasley. “This way, Lucius."
"Why wasn’t he waiting outside Fudge’s office if they’ve got business to do together?” Harry burst out furiously. “What was he doing down here?"
"Trying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask me,” said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely agitated as he glanced over his shoulder as though making sure they could not be overheard. “Trying to find out whether you’d been expelled or not. I’ll leave a note for Dumbledore when I drop you off, he ought to know Malfoy’s been talking to Fudge again."
"What private business have they got together anyway?"
"Gold, I expect,” said Mr. Weasley angrily. “Malfoy’s been giving generously to all sorts of things for years. . . . Gets him in with the right people . . . then he can ask favors . . . delay laws he doesn’t want passed . . . Oh, he’s very well connected, Lucius Malfoy . . ."
"Mr. Weasley,” said Harry slowly, “if Fudge is meeting Death Eaters like Malfoy, if he’s seeing them alone, how do we know they haven’t put the Imperius Curse on him?"
"Don’t think it hadn’t occurred to us, Harry,” muttered Mr. Weasley. “But Dumbledore thinks Fudge is acting of his own accord at the moment — which, as Dumbledore says, is not a lot of comfort. . . . Best not talk about it anymore just now, Harry . . ."
"Wait . . ."
"I knew it!” yelled Ron, punching the air. “You always get away with stuff!"
"They were bound to clear you,” said Hermione, who had looked positively faint with anxiety when Harry had entered the kitchen and was now holding a shaking hand over her eyes. “There was no case against you, none at all . . ."
"Everyone seems quite relieved, though, considering they all knew I’d get off,"
"He got off, he got off, he got off —"
"That’s enough, settle down!” shouted Mr. Weasley, though he too was smiling. “Listen, Sirius, Lucius Malfoy was at the Ministry —"
"What?"
"He got off, he got off, he got off —"
"Be quiet, you three! Yes, we saw him talking to Fudge on level nine, then they went up to Fudge’s office together. Dumbledore ought to know."
"Absolutely,” said Sirius. “We’ll tell him, don’t worry."
"Well, I’d better get going, there’s a vomiting toilet in Bethnal Green waiting for me. Molly, I’ll be late, I’m covering for Tonks, but Kingsley might be dropping in for dinner —"
"He got off, he got off, he got off —"
"That’s enough — Fred — George — Ginny!” said Mrs. Weasley, as Mr. Weasley left the kitchen. “Harry dear, come and sit down, have some lunch, you hardly ate breakfast . . ."
"’Course, once Dumbledore turned up on your side, there was no way they were going to convict you,"
"Yeah, he swung it for me,” said Harry. He felt that it would sound highly ungrateful, not to mention childish, to say, “I wish he’d talked to me, though. Or even looked at me."
"What’s up?"
"Scar,” Harry mumbled. “But it’s nothing. . . . It happens all the time now . . ."
"I bet Dumbledore turns up this evening to celebrate with us, you know."
"I don’t think he’ll be able to, Ron,” said Mrs. Weasley, setting a huge plate of roast chicken down in front of Harry. “He’s really very busy at the moment."
"HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF —"
"SHUT UP!"
"Don’t you go feeling guilty!” said Hermione sternly, after Harry had confided some of his feelings to her and Ron while they scrubbed out a moldy cupboard on the third floor a few days later. “You belong at Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. Personally, I think he’s being selfish."
"That’s a bit harsh, Hermione,” said Ron, frowning as he attempted to prize off a bit of mold that had attached itself firmly to his finger, “you wouldn’t want to be stuck inside this house without company."
"He’ll have company!” said Hermione. “It’s headquarters to the Order of the Phoenix, isn’t it? He just got his hopes up that Harry would be coming to live here with him."
"I don’t think that’s true,” said Harry, wringing out his cloth. “He wouldn’t give me a straight answer when I asked him if I could."
"He just didn’t want to get his own hopes up even more,” said Hermione wisely. “And he probably felt a bit guilty himself, because I think a part of him was really hoping you’d be expelled. Then you’d both be outcasts together."
"Come off it!"
"Suit yourselves. But I sometimes think Ron’s mum’s right, and Sirius gets confused about whether you’re you or your father, Harry."
"So you think he’s touched in the head?"
"No, I just think he’s been very lonely for a long time,"
"Still not finished?"
"I thought you might be here to tell us to have a break!” said Ron bitterly. “D’you know how much mold we’ve got rid of since we arrived here?"
"You were so keen to help the Order,” said Mrs. Weasley, “you can do your bit by making headquarters fit to live in."
"I feel like a house-elf,"
"Well, now that you understand what dreadful lives they lead, perhaps you’ll be a bit more active in S.P.E.W.!” said Hermione hopefully, as Mrs. Weasley left them to it again. “You know, maybe it wouldn’t be a bad idea to show people exactly how horrible it is to clean all the time — we could do a sponsored scrub of Gryffindor common room, all proceeds to S.P.E.W., it would raise awareness as well as funds —"
"I’ll sponsor you to shut up about spew,"
"Booklists have arrived,” he said, throwing one of the envelopes up to Harry, who was standing on a chair. “About time, I thought they’d forgotten, they usually come much earlier than this . . ."
"Only two new ones,” he said, reading the list. “The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 5, by Miranda Goshawk and Defensive Magical Theory, by Wilbert Slinkhard."
"We were just wondering who assigned the Slinkhard book,"
"Because it means Dumbledore’s found a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher,"
"And about time too,"
"What d’you mean?"
"Well, we overheard Mum and Dad talking on the Extendable Ears a few weeks back,” Fred told Harry, “and from what they were saying, Dumbledore was having real trouble finding anyone to do the job this year."
"Not surprising, is it, when you look at what’s happened to the last four?"
"One sacked, one dead, one’s memory removed, and one locked in a trunk for nine months,” said Harry, counting them off on his fingers. “Yeah, I see what you mean."
"What’s up with you, Ron?"
"What’s the matter?"
"Prefect?” he said, staring incredulously at the letter. “Prefect?"
"No way,"
"There’s been a mistake,” said Fred, snatching the letter out of Ron’s grasp and holding it up to the light as though checking for a watermark. “No one in their right mind would make Ron a prefect . . ."
"We thought you were a cert!"
"We thought Dumbledore was bound to pick you!"
"Winning the Triwizard and everything!"
"I suppose all the mad stuff must’ve counted against him,"
"Yeah,” said Fred slowly. “Yeah, you’ve caused too much trouble, mate. Well, at least one of you’s got their priorities right."
"Prefect . . . ickle Ronnie the prefect . . ."
"Oh, Mum’s going to be revolting,"
"Did you — did you get — ?"
"I knew it!” she said excitedly, brandishing her letter. “Me too, Harry, me too!"
"No,” said Harry quickly, pushing the badge back into Ron’s hand. “It’s Ron, not me."
"It — what?"
"Ron’s prefect, not me,"
"Ron?” said Hermione, her jaw dropping. “But . . . are you sure? I mean —"
"It’s my name on the letter,"
"I . . .” said Hermione, looking thoroughly bewildered. “I . . . well . . . wow! Well done, Ron! That’s really —"
"Unexpected,"
"No,” said Hermione, blushing harder than ever, “no, it’s not . . . Ron’s done loads of . . . he’s really . . ."
"Ginny said the booklists had come at last,” she said, glancing around at all the envelopes as she made her way over to the bed and started sorting the robes into two piles. “If you give them to me I’ll take them over to Diagon Alley this afternoon and get your books while you’re packing. Ron, I’ll have to get you more pajamas, these are at least six inches too short, I can’t believe how fast you’re growing . . . what color would you like?"
"Get him red and gold to match his badge,"
"Match his what?"
"His badge,” said Fred, with the air of getting the worst over quickly. “His lovely shiny new prefect’s badge."
"His . . . but . . . Ron, you’re not . . . ?"
"I don’t believe it! I don’t believe it! Oh, Ron, how wonderful! A prefect! That’s everyone in the family!"
"What are Fred and I, next-door neighbors?"
"Wait until your father hears! Ron, I’m so proud of you, what wonderful news, you could end up Head Boy just like Bill and Percy, it’s the first step! Oh, what a thing to happen in the middle of all this worry, I’m just thrilled, oh Ronnie —"
"Mum . . . don’t . . . Mum, get a grip . . ."
"Well, what will it be? We gave Percy an owl, but you’ve already got one, of course."
"W-what do you mean?"
"You’ve got to have a reward for this!” said Mrs. Weasley fondly. “How about a nice new set of dress robes?"
"We’ve already bought him some,"
"Or a new cauldron, Charlie’s old one’s rusting through, or a new rat, you always liked Scabbers —"
"Mum,” said Ron hopefully, “can I have a new broom?"
"Not a really good one!” Ron hastened to add. “Just — just a new one for a change . . ."
"Of course you can. . . . Well, I’d better get going if I’ve got a broom to buy too. I’ll see you all later. . . . Little Ronnie, a prefect! And don’t forget to pack your trunks. . . . A prefect . . . Oh, I’m all of a dither!"
"You don’t mind if we don’t kiss you, do you, Ron?"
"We could curtsy, if you like,"
"Oh, shut up,"
"Or what?” said Fred, an evil grin spreading across his face. “Going to put us in detention?"
"I’d love to see him try,"
"He could if you don’t watch out!” said Hermione angrily, at which Fred and George burst out laughing and Ron muttered, “Drop it, Hermione."
"We’re going to have to watch our step, George,” said Fred, pretending to tremble, “with these two on our case . . ."
"Yeah, it looks like our law-breaking days are finally over,"
"Those two!” said Hermione furiously, staring up at the ceiling, through which they could now hear Fred and George roaring with laughter in the room upstairs. “Don’t pay any attention to them, Ron, they’re only jealous!"
"I don’t think they are,” said Ron doubtfully, also looking up at the ceiling. “They’ve always said only prats become prefects. . . . Still,” he added on a happier note, “they’ve never had new brooms! I wish I could go with Mum and choose. . . . She’ll never be able to afford a Nimbus, but there’s the new Cleansweep out, that’d be great. . . . Yeah, I think I’ll go and tell her I like the Cleansweep, just so she knows . . ."
"Harry?"
"Well done,” said Harry, so heartily it did not sound like his voice at all, and still not looking at her. “Brilliant. Prefect. Great."
"Thanks,” said Hermione. “Erm — Harry — could I borrow Hedwig so I can tell Mum and Dad? They’ll be really pleased — I mean, prefect is something they can understand —"
"Yeah, no problem,” said Harry, still in the horrible hearty voice that did not belong to him. “Take her!"
"No one in their right mind would make Ron a prefect . . ."
"Just caught her!” he said happily. “She says she’ll get the Cleansweep if she can."
"Cool,” Harry said, and he was relieved to hear that his voice had stopped sounding hearty. “Listen — Ron — well done, mate."
"I never thought it would be me!” he said, shaking his head, “I thought it would be you!"
"Nah, I’ve caused too much trouble,"
"Yeah,” said Ron, “yeah, I suppose. . . . Well, we’d better get our trunks packed, hadn’t we?"
"Never mind unwrapping it now, people are arriving for dinner, I want you all downstairs,"
"I thought we’d have a little party, not a sit-down dinner,” she told Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny as they entered the room. “Your father and Bill are on their way, Ron, I’ve sent them both owls and they’re thrilled,"
"Oh, Alastor, I am glad you’re here,” said Mrs. Weasley brightly, as Mad-Eye shrugged off his traveling cloak. “We’ve been wanting to ask you for ages — could you have a look in the writing desk in the drawing room and tell us what’s inside it? We haven’t wanted to open it just in case it’s something really nasty."
"No problem, Molly . . ."
"Drawing room . . .” he growled, as the pupil contracted. “Desk in the corner? Yeah, I see it. . . . Yeah, it’s a boggart. . . . Want me to go up and get rid of it, Molly?"
"No, no, I’ll do it myself later,” beamed Mrs. Weasley. “You have your drink. We’re having a little bit of a celebration, actually . . .” She gestured at the scarlet banner. “Fourth prefect in the family!"
"Prefect, eh?"
"Well, congratulations,” said Moody, still glaring at Ron with his normal eye, “authority figures always attract trouble, but I suppose Dumbledore thinks you can withstand most major jinxes or he wouldn’t have appointed you . . ."
"Well, I think a toast is in order,” said Mr. Weasley, when everyone had a drink. He raised his goblet. “To Ron and Hermione, the new Gryffindor prefects!"
"I was never a prefect myself,” said Tonks brightly from behind Harry as everybody moved toward the table to help themselves to food. Her hair was tomato-red and waist length today; she looked like Ginny’s older sister. “My Head of House said I lacked certain necessary qualities."
"Like what?"
"Like the ability to behave myself,"
"What about you, Sirius?"
"No one would have made me a prefect, I spent too much time in detention with James. Lupin was the good boy, he got the badge."
"I think Dumbledore might have hoped that I would be able to exercise some control over my best friends,” said Lupin. “I need scarcely say that I failed dismally."
". . . naught to seventy in ten seconds, not bad, is it? When you think the Comet Two Ninety’s only naught to sixty and that’s with a decent tailwind according to Which Broomstick?"
"I mean, it’s the same kind of nonsense as werewolf segregation, isn’t it? It all stems from this horrible thing wizards have of thinking they’re superior to other creatures . . ."
". . . getting really out of hand, and you’re so good-looking, it would look much better shorter, wouldn’t it, Harry?"
"Oh — I dunno —"
"It’s okay,” he told Mundungus, “we can trust Harry, he’s our financial backer."
"Look what Dung’s gotten us,"
"Venomous Tentacula seeds,” said George. “We need them for the Skiving Snackboxes but they’re a Class C Non-Tradeable Substance so we’ve been having a bit of trouble getting hold of them."
"Ten Galleons the lot, then, Dung?"
"Wiv all the trouble I went to to get ’em?” said Mundungus, his saggy, bloodshot eyes stretching even wider. “I’m sorry, lads, but I’m not taking a Knut under twenty."
"Dung likes his little joke,"
"Yeah, his best one so far has been six Sickles for a bag of knarl quills,"
"Be careful,"
"What?” said Fred. “Mum’s busy cooing over Prefect Ron, we’re okay."
"But Moody could have his eye on you,"
"Good point, that,” he grunted. “All right, lads, ten it is, if you’ll take ’em quick."
"Cheers, Harry!” said Fred delightedly, when Mundungus had emptied his pockets into the twins’ outstretched hands and scuttled off toward the food. “We’d better get these upstairs . . ."
". . . why Dumbledore didn’t make Potter a prefect?"
"He’ll have had his reasons,"
"But it would’ve shown confidence in him. It’s what I’d’ve done,” persisted Kingsley, “’specially with the Daily Prophet having a go at him every few days . . ."
". . . the handle’s made of Spanish oak with anti-jinx varnish and in-built vibration control —"
"Well, I think I’ll sort out that boggart before I turn in. . . . Arthur, I don’t want this lot up too late, all right? ’Night, Harry, dear."
"You all right, Potter?"
"Yeah, fine,"
"Come here, I’ve got something that might interest you,"
"Original Order of the Phoenix,” growled Moody. “Found it last night when I was looking for my spare Invisibility Cloak, seeing as Podmore hasn’t had the manners to return my best one. . . . Thought people might like to see it."
"There’s me,” said Moody unnecessarily, pointing at himself. The Moody in the picture was unmistakable, though his hair was slightly less gray and his nose was intact. “And there’s Dumbledore beside me, Dedalus Diggle on the other side . . . That’s Marlene McKinnon, she was killed two weeks after this was taken, they got her whole family. That’s Frank and Alice Longbottom —"
"Poor devils,” growled Moody. “Better dead than what happened to them . . . and that’s Emmeline Vance, you’ve met her, and that there’s Lupin, obviously . . . Benjy Fenwick, he copped it too, we only ever found bits of him . . . shift aside there,"
"That’s Edgar Bones . . . brother of Amelia Bones, they got him and his family too, he was a great wizard . . . Sturgis Podmore, blimey, he looks young . . . Caradoc Dearborn, vanished six months after this, we never found his body . . . Hagrid, of course, looks exactly the same as ever . . . Elphias Doge, you’ve met him, I’d forgotten he used to wear that stupid hat . . . Gideon Prewett, it took five Death Eaters to kill him and his brother Fabian, they fought like heroes . . . budge along, budge along . . ."
"That’s Dumbledore’s brother, Aberforth, only time I ever met him, strange bloke . . . That’s Dorcas Meadowes, Voldemort killed her personally . . . Sirius, when he still had short hair . . . and . . . there you go, thought that would interest you!"
"Eh?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, attempting to grin again. “Er . . . listen, I’ve just remembered, I haven’t packed my . . ."
"What’s that you’ve got there, Mad-Eye?"
"Hello?"
"Mrs. Weasley?"
"R-r-riddikulus!"
"R-riddikulus!"
"No!” Mrs. Weasley moaned. “No . . . riddikulus! Riddikulus! RIDDIKULUS!"
"Mrs. Weasley, just get out of here!” shouted Harry, staring down at his own dead body on the floor. “Let someone else —"
"What’s going on?"
"Riddikulus!"
"Oh — oh — oh!"
"Molly,” said Lupin bleakly, walking over to her, “Molly, don’t . . ."
"Molly, it was just a boggart,” he said soothingly, patting her on the head. “Just a stupid boggart . . ."
"I see them d-d-dead all the time!” Mrs. Weasley moaned into his shoulder. “All the t-t-time! I d-d-dream about it . . ."
"D-d-don’t tell Arthur,” Mrs. Weasley was gulping now, mopping her eyes frantically with her cuffs. “I d-d-don’t want him to know. . . . Being silly . . ."
"Harry, I’m so sorry, what must you think of me?” she said shakily. “Not even able to get rid of a boggart . . ."
"Don’t be stupid,"
"I’m just s-s-so worried,” she said, tears spilling out of her eyes again. “Half the f-f-family’s in the Order, it’ll b-b-be a miracle if we all come through this. . . . and P-P-Percy’s not talking to us. . . . What if something d-d-dreadful happens and we had never m-m-made up? And what’s going to happen if Arthur and I get killed, who’s g-g-going to look after Ron and Ginny?"
"Molly, that’s enough,” said Lupin firmly. “This isn’t like last time. The Order is better prepared, we’ve got a head start, we know what Voldemort’s up to —"
"Oh, Molly, come on, it’s about time you got used to hearing it — look, I can’t promise no one’s going to get hurt, nobody can promise that, but we’re much better off than we were last time, you weren’t in the Order then, you don’t understand, last time we were outnumbered twenty to one by the Death Eaters and they were picking us off one by one . . ."
"Don’t worry about Percy,” said Sirius abruptly. “He’ll come round. It’s a matter of time before Voldemort moves into the open; once he does, the whole Ministry’s going to be begging us to forgive them. And I’m not sure I’ll be accepting their apology,"
"And as for who’s going to look after Ron and Ginny if you and Arthur died,” said Lupin, smiling slightly, “what do you think we’d do, let them starve?"
"Being silly,"
"Cut it out,"
"First sign of madness, talking to your own head,"
". . . better hurry up, Mum’s going ballistic, she says we’re going to miss the train . . ."
"— COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, YOU IDIOTS —"
"— FILTHY HALF-BREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE HOUSE OF MY FATHERS —"
"Mum and Dad just sent Hedwig back” — the owl fluttered obligingly over and perched on top of her cage — “are you ready yet?"
"Nearly — Ginny all right?"
"Mrs. Weasley’s patched her up,” said Hermione. “But now Mad-Eye’s complaining that we can’t leave unless Sturgis Podmore’s here, otherwise the guard will be one short."
"Guard?” said Harry. “We have to go to King’s Cross with a guard?"
"You have to go to King’s Cross with a guard,"
"Why?” said Harry irritably. “I thought Voldemort was supposed to be lying low, or are you telling me he’s going to jump out from behind a dustbin to try and do me in?"
"I don’t know, it’s just what Mad-Eye says,” said Hermione distractedly, looking at her watch. “But if we don’t leave soon we’re definitely going to miss the train . . ."
"WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!"
"Harry, you’re to come with me and Tonks,” shouted Mrs. Weasley over the repeated screeches of “MUDBLOODS! SCUM! CREATURES OF DIRT!” “Leave your trunk and your owl, Alastor’s going to deal with the luggage. . . . Oh, for heaven’s sake, Sirius, Dumbledore said no!"
"Oh honestly . . .” said Mrs. Weasley despairingly, “well, on your own head be it!"
"Where’s Tonks?"
"She’s waiting for us just up here,"
"Wotcher, Harry,” she said, winking. “Better hurry up, hadn’t we, Molly?"
"I know, I know,” moaned Mrs. Weasley, lengthening her stride, “but Mad-Eye wanted to wait for Sturgis. . . . If only Arthur could have got us cars from the Ministry again . . . but Fudge wouldn’t let him borrow so much as an empty ink bottle these days. . . . How Muggles can stand traveling without magic . . ."
"I hope the others make it in time,"
"Nice dog, Harry!"
"Thanks, Lee,"
"Oh good,” said Mrs. Weasley, sounding relieved, “here’s Alastor with the luggage, look . . ."
"All okay,” he muttered to Mrs. Weasley and Tonks. “Don’t think we were followed . . ."
"No trouble?"
"Nothing,"
"I’ll still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore,” said Moody. “That’s the second time he’s not turned up in a week. Getting as unreliable as Mundungus."
"Well, look after yourselves,” said Lupin, shaking hands all round. He reached Harry last and gave him a clap on the shoulder. “You too, Harry. Be careful."
"Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled,” said Moody, shaking Harry’s hand too. “And don’t forget, all of you — careful what you put in writing. If in doubt, don’t put it in a letter at all."
"It’s been great meeting all of you,” said Tonks, hugging Hermione and Ginny. “We’ll see you soon, I expect."
"Quick, quick,” said Mrs. Weasley distractedly, hugging them at random and catching Harry twice. “Write . . . Be good. . . . If you’ve forgotten anything we’ll send it on. . . . Onto the train, now, hurry . . ."
"For heaven’s sake act more like a dog, Sirius!"
"See you!"
"He shouldn’t have come with us,"
"Oh lighten up,” said Ron, “he hasn’t seen daylight for months, poor bloke."
"Well,” said Fred, clapping his hands together, “can’t stand around chatting all day, we’ve got business to discuss with Lee. See you later,"
"Shall we go and find a compartment, then?"
"Er,"
"We’re — well — Ron and I are supposed to go into the prefect carriage,"
"Oh,” said Harry. “Right. Fine."
"I don’t think we’ll have to stay there all journey,” said Hermione quickly. “Our letters said we just get instructions from the Head Boy and Girl and then patrol the corridors from time to time."
"Fine,” said Harry again. “Well, I-I might see you later, then."
"Yeah, definitely,” said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious look at Harry. “It’s a pain having to go down there, I’d rather — but we have to — I mean, I’m not enjoying it, I’m not Percy,"
"I know you’re not,"
"Come on,” Ginny told him, “if we get a move on we’ll be able to save them places."
"Right,"
"Hi, Harry,” he panted. “Hi, Ginny. . . . Everywhere’s full. . . . I can’t find a seat . . ."
"What are you talking about?” said Ginny, who had squeezed past Neville to peer into the compartment behind him. “There’s room in this one, there’s only Loony Lovegood in here —"
"Don’t be silly,” said Ginny, laughing, “she’s all right."
"Hi, Luna,” said Ginny. “Is it okay if we take these seats?"
"Thanks,"
"Had a good summer, Luna?"
"Yes,” said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off Harry. “Yes, it was quite enjoyable, you know. You’re Harry Potter,"
"I know I am,"
"And I don’t know who you are."
"I’m nobody,"
"No you’re not,” said Ginny sharply. “Neville Longbottom — Luna Lovegood. Luna’s in my year, but in Ravenclaw."
"Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure,"
"Guess what I got for my birthday?"
"Another Remembrall?"
"No,” said Neville, “I could do with one, though, I lost the old one ages ago. . . . No, look at this . . ."
"Mimbulus mimbletonia,"
"It’s really, really rare,” said Neville, beaming. “I don’t know if there’s one in the greenhouse at Hogwarts, even. I can’t wait to show it to Professor Sprout. My great-uncle Algie got it for me in Assyria. I’m going to see if I can breed from it."
"Does it — er — do anything?"
"Loads of stuff!” said Neville proudly. “It’s got an amazing defensive mechanism — hold Trevor for me . . ."
"S-sorry,” he gasped. “I haven’t tried that before. . . . Didn’t realize it would be quite so . . . Don’t worry, though, Stinksap’s not poisonous,"
"Oh . . . hello, Harry,” said a nervous voice. “Um . . . bad time?"
"Oh . . . hi,"
"Um . . .” said Cho. “Well . . . just thought I’d say hello . . . ’bye then."
"Never mind,” said Ginny bracingly. “Look, we can get rid of all this easily.” She pulled out her wand. “Scourgify!"
"Sorry,"
"I’m starving,"
"Well, there are two fifth-year prefects from each House,” said Hermione, looking thoroughly disgruntled as she took her seat. “Boy and girl from each."
"And guess who’s a Slytherin prefect?"
"Malfoy,"
"’Course,"
"And that complete cow Pansy Parkinson,” said Hermione viciously. “How she got to be a prefect when she’s thicker than a concussed troll . . ."
"Who’s Hufflepuff?"
"Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Abbott,"
"And Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for Ravenclaw,"
"You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil,"
"Yeah, I know I did,"
"She didn’t enjoy it very much,” Luna informed him. “She doesn’t think you treated her very well, because you wouldn’t dance with her. I don’t think I’d have minded,” she added thoughtfully, “I don’t like dancing very much."
"We’re supposed to patrol the corridors every so often,” he told Harry and Neville, “and we can give out punishments if people are misbehaving. I can’t wait to get Crabbe and Goyle for something . . ."
"You’re not supposed to abuse your position, Ron!"
"Yeah, right, because Malfoy won’t abuse it at all,"
"So you’re going to descend to his level?"
"No, I’m just going to make sure I get his mates before he gets mine."
"For heaven’s sake, Ron —"
"I’ll make Goyle do lines, it’ll kill him, he hates writing,” said Ron happily. He lowered his voice to Goyle’s low grunt and, screwing up his face in a look of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. “I . . . must . . . not . . . look . . . like . . . a . . . baboon’s . . . backside . . ."
"That was funny!"
"Are you taking the mickey?"
"Baboon’s . . . backside!"
"Can I have a look at this?"
"What people don’t realize is that Sirius Black is a false name,” says Mrs. Purkiss. “The man people believe to be Sirius Black is actually Stubby Boardman, lead singer of the popular singing group The Hobgoblins, who retired from public life after being struck in the ear by a turnip at a concert in Little Norton Church Hall nearly fifteen years ago. I recognized him the moment I saw his picture in the paper. Now, Stubby couldn’t possibly have committed those crimes, because on the day in question he happened to be enjoying a romantic candlelit dinner with me. I have written to the Minister of Magic and am expecting him to give Stubby, alias Sirius, a full pardon any day now."
"cooperate peacefully"
"It wouldn’t be the first time, either,” said a Ministry insider. “Cornelius ‘Goblin-Crusher’ Fudge, that’s what his friends call him, if you could hear him when he thinks no one’s listening, oh, he’s always talking about the goblins he’s had done in; he’s had them drowned, he’s had them dropped off buildings, he’s had them poisoned, he’s had them cooked in pies . . ."
"Anything good in there?"
"Of course not,” said Hermione scathingly, before Harry could answer, “The Quibbler’s rubbish, everyone knows that."
"Excuse me,” said Luna; her voice had suddenly lost its dreamy quality. “My father’s the editor."
"I — oh,” said Hermione, looking embarrassed. “Well . . . it’s got some interesting . . . I mean, it’s quite . . ."
"I’ll have it back, thank you,"
"What?"
"Manners, Potter, or I’ll have to give you a detention,” drawled Malfoy, whose sleek blond hair and pointed chin were just like his father’s. “You see, I, unlike you, have been made a prefect, which means that I, unlike you, have the power to hand out punishments."
"Yeah,” said Harry, “but you, unlike me, are a git, so get out and leave us alone."
"Tell me, how does it feel being second-best to Weasley, Potter?"
"Shut up, Malfoy,"
"I seem to have touched a nerve,” said Malfoy, smirking. “Well, just watch yourself, Potter, because I’ll be dogging your footsteps in case you step out of line."
"Get out!"
"Chuck us another Frog,"
"dogging"
"We’d better change,"
"I’ll carry that owl, if you like,"
"Oh — er — thanks,"
"Firs’ years over here . . . firs’ years . . ."
"First years line up over here, please! All first years to me!"
"Where’s Hagrid?"
"I don’t know,” said Ginny, “but we’d better get out of the way, we’re blocking the door."
"Oh yeah . . ."
"Where’s Pig?"
"That Luna girl was carrying him,” said Harry, turning quickly, eager to consult Ron about Hagrid. “Where d’you reckon —"
"— Hagrid is? I dunno,” said Ron, sounding worried. “He’d better be okay . . ."
"Malfoy was being absolutely foul to a first year back there, I swear I’m going to report him, he’s only had his badge three minutes and he’s using it to bully people worse than ever. . . . Where’s Crookshanks?"
"Ginny’s got him,” said Harry. “There she is . . ."
"Thanks,” said Hermione, relieving Ginny of the cat. “Come on, let’s get a carriage together before they all fill up . . ."
"I haven’t got Pig yet!"
"What are those things, d’you reckon?"
"What things?"
"Those horse —"
"Here you are,” she said. “He’s a sweet little owl, isn’t he?"
"Er . . . yeah . . . He’s all right,” said Ron gruffly. “Well, come on then, let’s get in. . . . what were you saying, Harry?"
"I was saying, what are those horse things?"
"What horse things?"
"The horse things pulling the carriages!"
"What are you talking about?"
"I’m talking about — look!"
"What am I supposed to be looking at?"
"At the — there, between the shafts! Harnessed to the coach! It’s right there in front —"
"Can’t . . . can’t you see them?"
"See what?"
"Can’t you see what’s pulling the carriages?"
"Are you feeling all right, Harry?"
"I . . . yeah . . ."
"Shall we get in, then?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah, go on . . ."
"It’s all right,” said a dreamy voice from beside Harry as Ron vanished into the coach’s dark interior. “You’re not going mad or anything. I can see them too."
"Can you?"
"Oh yes,” said Luna, “I’ve been able to see them ever since my first day here. They’ve always pulled the carriages. Don’t worry. You’re just as sane as I am."
"Did everyone see that Grubbly-Plank woman?” asked Ginny. “What’s she doing back here? Hagrid can’t have left, can he?"
"I’ll be quite glad if he has,” said Luna. “He isn’t a very good teacher, is he?"
"Yes, he is!"
"Erm . . . yes . . . he’s very good."
"Well, we think he’s a bit of a joke in Ravenclaw,"
"You’ve got a rubbish sense of humor then,"
"Are you coming or what?"
"Oh . . . yeah,"
"He’s not there."
"He can’t have left,"
"Of course he hasn’t,"
"You don’t think he’s . . . hurt, or anything, do you?"
"No,"
"But where is he, then?"
"Maybe he’s not back yet. You know — from his mission — the thing he was doing over the summer for Dumbledore."
"Yeah . . . yeah, that’ll be it,"
"Who’s that?"
"It’s that Umbridge woman!"
"Who?"
"She was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!"
"Nice cardigan,"
"She works for Fudge?” Hermione repeated, frowning. “What on earth’s she doing here, then?"
"Dunno . . ."
"No,” she muttered, “no, surely not . . ."
"Together we will build and teach!"
"Branched out a bit this year, hasn’t it?"
"Too right it has,"
"I wonder if it’s ever given warnings before?"
"Yes, indeed,” said Nearly Headless Nick knowledgeably, leaning across Neville toward her (Neville winced, it was very uncomfortable to have a ghost lean through you). “The hat feels itself honor-bound to give the school due warning whenever it feels —"
"Abercrombie, Euan."
"GRYFFINDOR!"
"Zeller, Rose"
"To our newcomers,” said Dumbledore in a ringing voice, his arms stretched wide and a beaming smile on his lips, “welcome! To our old hands — welcome back! There is a time for speech making, but this is not it. Tuck in!"
"Excellent,"
"What were you saying before the Sorting?” Hermione asked the ghost. “About the hat giving warnings?"
"Oh yes,” said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to turn away from Ron, who was now eating roast potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm. “Yes, I have heard the hat give several warnings before, always at times when it detects periods of great danger for the school. And always, of course, its advice is the same: Stand together, be strong from within."
"Ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?"
"I beg your pardon?” said Nearly Headless Nick politely, while Hermione looked revolted. Ron gave an enormous swallow and said, “How can it know if the school’s in danger if it’s a hat?"
"I have no idea,” said Nearly Headless Nick. “Of course, it lives in Dumbledore’s office, so I daresay it picks things up there."
"And it wants all the Houses to be friends?” said Harry, looking over at the Slytherin table, where Draco Malfoy was holding court. “Fat chance."
"Well, now, you shouldn’t take that attitude,” said Nick reprovingly. “Peaceful cooperation, that’s the key. We ghosts, though we belong to separate Houses, maintain links of friendship. In spite of the competitiveness between Gryffindor and Slytherin, I would never dream of seeking an argument with the Bloody Baron."
"Only because you’re terrified of him,"
"Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, have never been guilty of cowardice in my life! The noble blood that runs in my veins —"
"What blood?” asked Ron. “Surely you haven’t still got — ?"
"It’s a figure of speech!” said Nearly Headless Nick, now so annoyed his head was trembling ominously on his partially severed neck. “I assume I am still allowed to enjoy the use of whichever words I like, even if the pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! But I am quite used to students poking fun at my death, I assure you!"
"Nick, he wasn’t really laughing at you!"
"node iddum eentup sechew,"
"Well done, Ron,"
"What?” said Ron indignantly, having managed, finally, to swallow his food. “I’m not allowed to ask a simple question?"
"Oh forget it,"
"Well, now that we are all digesting another magnificent feast, I beg a few moments of your attention for the usual start-of-term notices,” said Dumbledore. “First years ought to know that the forest in the grounds is out of bounds to students — and a few of our older students ought to know by now too."
"We have had two changes in staffing this year. We are very pleased to welcome back Professor Grubbly-Plank, who will be taking Care of Magical Creatures lessons; we are also delighted to introduce Professor Umbridge, our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."
"Tryouts for the House Quidditch teams will take place on the —"
"Hem, hem,"
"Thank you, Headmaster,” Professor Umbridge simpered, “for those kind words of welcome."
"Hem, hem”) and continued: “Well, it is lovely to be back at Hogwarts, I must say!” She smiled, revealing very pointed teeth. “And to see such happy little faces looking back at me!"
"I am very much looking forward to getting to know you all, and I’m sure we’ll be very good friends!"
"I’ll be her friend as long as I don’t have to borrow that cardigan,"
"Hem, hem"
"The Ministry of Magic has always considered the education of young witches and wizards to be of vital importance. The rare gifts with which you were born may come to nothing if not nurtured and honed by careful instruction. The ancient skills unique to the Wizarding community must be passed down through the generations lest we lose them forever. The treasure trove of magical knowledge amassed by our ancestors must be guarded, replenished, and polished by those who have been called to the noble profession of teaching."
"Hem, hem"
"Every headmaster and headmistress of Hogwarts has brought something new to the weighty task of governing this historic school, and that is as it should be, for without progress there will be stagnation and decay. There again, progress for progress’s sake must be discouraged, for our tried and tested traditions often require no tinkering. A balance, then, between old and new, between permanence and change, between tradition and innovation . . ."
". . . because some changes will be for the better, while others will come, in the fullness of time, to be recognized as errors of judgment. Meanwhile, some old habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas others, outmoded and outworn, must be abandoned. Let us move forward, then, into a new era of openness, effectiveness, and accountability, intent on preserving what ought to be preserved, perfecting what needs to be perfected, and pruning wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibited."
"Thank you very much, Professor Umbridge, that was most illuminating,” he said, bowing to her. “Now — as I was saying, Quidditch tryouts will be held . . ."
"Yes, it certainly was illuminating,"
"You’re not telling me you enjoyed it?” Ron said quietly, turning a glazed face upon Hermione. “That was about the dullest speech I’ve ever heard, and I grew up with Percy."
"I said illuminating, not enjoyable,” said Hermione. “It explained a lot."
"Did it?” said Harry in surprise. “Sounded like a load of waffle to me."
"There was some important stuff hidden in the waffle,"
"Was there?"
"How about ‘progress for progress’s sake must be discouraged’? How about ‘pruning wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibited’?"
"Well, what does that mean?"
"I’ll tell you what it means,” said Hermione ominously. “It means the Ministry’s interfering at Hogwarts."
"Ron, we’re supposed to show the first years where to go!"
"Oh yeah,” said Ron, who had obviously forgotten. “Hey — hey you lot! Midgets!"
"Ron!"
"Well, they are, they’re titchy . . ."
"I know, but you can’t call them midgets. . . . First years!” Hermione called commandingly along the table. “This way, please!"
"See you later,"
"Er . . ."
"No password, no entrance,"
"Harry, I know it!” someone panted from behind him, and he turned to see Neville jogging toward him. “Guess what it is? I’m actually going to be able to remember it for once —” He waved the stunted little cactus he had shown them on the train. “Mimbulus mimbletonia!"
"Correct,"
"Hi,"
"Hey, Harry,” said Dean, who was putting on a pair of pajamas in the West Ham colors. “Good holiday?"
"Not bad,” muttered Harry, as a true account of his holiday would have taken most of the night to relate and he could not face it. “You?"
"Yeah, it was okay,” chuckled Dean. “Better than Seamus’s anyway, he was just telling me."
"Why, what happened, Seamus?"
"Me mam didn’t want me to come back."
"What?"
"She didn’t want me to come back to Hogwarts."
"But — why?"
"Well,” he said in a measured voice, “I suppose . . . because of you."
"What d’you mean?"
"Well,” said Seamus again, still avoiding Harry’s eyes, “she . . . er . . . well, it’s not just you, it’s Dumbledore too . . ."
"She believes the Daily Prophet?” said Harry. “She thinks I’m a liar and Dumbledore’s an old fool?"
"Yeah, something like that."
"Look . . . what did happen that night when . . . you know, when . . . with Cedric Diggory and all?"
"What are you asking me for?” Harry retorted. “Just read the Daily Prophet like your mother, why don’t you? That’ll tell you all you need to know."
"Don’t you have a go at my mother,"
"I’ll have a go at anyone who calls me a liar,"
"Don’t talk to me like that!"
"I’ll talk to you how I want,” said Harry, his temper rising so fast he snatched his wand back from his bedside table. “If you’ve got a problem sharing a dormitory with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can be moved, stop your mummy worrying —"
"Leave my mother out of this, Potter!"
"What’s going on?"
"He’s having a go at my mother!"
"What?” said Ron. “Harry wouldn’t do that — we met your mother, we liked her . . ."
"That’s before she started believing every word the stinking Daily Prophet writes about me!"
"Oh,” said Ron, comprehension dawning across his freckled face. “Oh . . . right."
"You know what?” said Seamus heatedly, casting Harry a venomous look. “He’s right, I don’t want to share a dormitory with him anymore, he’s a madman."
"That’s out of order, Seamus,"
"Out of order, am I?” shouted Seamus, who in contrast with Ron was turning paler. “You believe all the rubbish he’s come out with about You-Know-Who, do you, you reckon he’s telling the truth?"
"Yeah, I do!"
"Then you’re mad too,"
"Yeah? Well unfortunately for you, pal, I’m also a prefect!” said Ron, jabbing himself in the chest with a finger. “So unless you want detention, watch your mouth!"
"Anyone else’s parents got a problem with Harry?"
"My parents are Muggles, mate,” said Dean, shrugging. “They don’t know nothing about no deaths at Hogwarts, because I’m not stupid enough to tell them."
"You don’t know my mother, she’ll weasel anything out of anyone!” Seamus snapped at him. “Anyway, your parents don’t get the Daily Prophet, they don’t know our headmaster’s been sacked from the Wizengamot and the International Confederation of Wizards because he’s losing his marbles —"
"My gran says that’s rubbish,” piped up Neville. “She says it’s the Daily Prophet that’s going downhill, not Dumbledore. She’s canceled our subscription. We believe Harry,” he said simply. He climbed into bed and pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly over them at Seamus. “My gran’s always said You-Know-Who would come back one day. She says if Dumbledore says he’s back, he’s back."
"Does he think he’ll turn into a nutter if he stays in a room with me too long?"
"Don’t worry about it, Harry,” Dean muttered, hoisting his schoolbag onto his shoulder. “He’s just . . ."
"What’s the matter?” asked Hermione five minutes later, catching up with Harry and Ron halfway across the common room as they all headed toward breakfast. “You look absolutely — oh for heaven’s sake."
"They are the limit,” said Hermione grimly, taking down the sign, which Fred and George had pinned up over a poster giving the date of the first Hogsmeade weekend in October. “We’ll have to talk to them, Ron."
"Why?"
"Because we’re prefects!” said Hermione, as they climbed out through the portrait hole. “It’s up to us to stop this kind of thing!"
"Anyway, what’s up, Harry?” Hermione continued, as they walked down a flight of stairs lined with portraits of old witches and wizards, all of whom ignored them, being engrossed in their own conversation. “You look really angry about something."
"Seamus reckons Harry’s lying about You-Know-Who,"
"Yes, Lavender thinks so too,"
"Been having a nice little chat with her about whether or not I’m a lying, attention-seeking prat, have you?"
"No,” said Hermione calmly, “I told her to keep her big fat mouth shut about you, actually. And it would be quite nice if you stopped jumping down Ron’s and my throats, Harry, because if you haven’t noticed, we’re on your side."
"Sorry,"
"That’s quite all right,” said Hermione with dignity. Then she shook her head. “Don’t you remember what Dumbledore said at the end-of-term feast last year?"
"About You-Know-Who. He said, ‘His gift for spreading discord and enmity is very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally strong bond of friendship and trust —’"
"How do you remember stuff like that?"
"I listen, Ron,"
"So do I, but I still couldn’t tell you exactly what —"
"The point,” Hermione pressed on loudly, “is that this sort of thing is exactly what Dumbledore was talking about. You-Know-Who’s only been back two months, and we’ve started fighting among ourselves. And the Sorting Hat’s warning was the same — stand together, be united —"
"And Harry said it last night,” retorted Ron, “if that means we’re supposed to get matey with the Slytherins, fat chance."
"Well, I think it’s a pity we’re not trying for a bit of inter-House unity,"
"Yeah, we really ought to be trying to make friends with people like that,"
"Dumbledore didn’t even mention how long that Grubbly-Plank woman’s staying,"
"Maybe . . ."
"What?"
"Well . . . maybe he didn’t want to draw attention to Hagrid not being here."
"What d’you mean, draw attention to it?” said Ron, half laughing. “How could we not notice?"
"Hi, Angelina."
"Hi,” she said briskly, “good summer?” And without waiting for an answer, “Listen, I’ve been made Gryffindor Quidditch Captain."
"Nice one,"
"Yeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Oliver’s left. Tryouts are on Friday at five o’clock and I want the whole team there, all right? Then we can see how the new person’ll fit in."
"Okay,"
"I’d forgotten Wood had left,” said Hermione vaguely, sitting down beside Ron and pulling a plate of toast toward her. “I suppose that will make quite a difference to the team?"
"I s’pose,” said Harry, taking the bench opposite. “He was a good Keeper . . ."
"Still, it won’t hurt to have some new blood, will it?"
"What are you still getting that for?” said Harry irritably, thinking of Seamus, as Hermione placed a Knut in the leather pouch on the owl’s leg and it took off again. “I’m not bothering . . . load of rubbish."
"It’s best to know what the enemy are saying,"
"Nothing,” she said simply, rolling up the newspaper and laying it down by her plate. “Nothing about you or Dumbledore or anything."
"Look at today!” groaned Ron. “History of Magic, double Potions, Divination, and double Defense Against the Dark Arts . . . Binns, Snape, Trelawney, and that Umbridge woman all in one day! I wish Fred and George’d hurry up and get those Skiving Snackboxes sorted . . ."
"Do mine ears deceive me?” said Fred, arriving with George and squeezing onto the bench beside Harry. “Hogwarts prefects surely don’t wish to skive off lessons?"
"Look what we’ve got today,” said Ron grumpily, shoving his schedule under Fred’s nose. “That’s the worst Monday I’ve ever seen."
"Fair point, little bro,” said Fred, scanning the column. “You can have a bit of Nosebleed Nougat cheap if you like."
"Why’s it cheap?"
"Because you’ll keep bleeding till you shrivel up, we haven’t got an antidote yet,"
"Cheers,” said Ron moodily, pocketing his schedule, “but I think I’ll take the lessons."
"And speaking of your Skiving Snackboxes,” said Hermione, eyeing Fred and George beadily, “you can’t advertise for testers on the Gryffindor notice board."
"Says who?"
"Says me,” said Hermione. “And Ron."
"Leave me out of it,"
"You’ll be singing a different tune soon enough, Hermione,” said Fred, thickly buttering a crumpet. “You’re starting your fifth year, you’ll be begging us for a Snackbox before long."
"And why would starting fifth year mean I want a Skiving Snackbox?"
"Fifth year’s O.W.L. year,"
"So?"
"So you’ve got your exams coming up, haven’t you? They’ll be keeping your noses so hard to that grindstone they’ll be rubbed raw,"
"Half our year had minor breakdowns coming up to O.W.L.s,” said George happily. “Tears and tantrums . . . Patricia Stimpson kept coming over faint . . ."
"Kenneth Towler came out in boils, d’you remember?"
"That’s ’cause you put Bulbadox Powder in his pajamas,"
"Oh yeah,” said Fred, grinning. “I’d forgotten. . . . Hard to keep track sometimes, isn’t it?"
"Anyway, it’s a nightmare of a year, the fifth,” said George. “If you care about exam results anyway. Fred and I managed to keep our spirits up somehow."
"Yeah . . . you got, what was it, three O.W.L.s each?"
"Yep,” said Fred unconcernedly. “But we feel our futures lie outside the world of academic achievement."
"We seriously debated whether we were going to bother coming back for our seventh year,” said George brightly, “now that we’ve got —"
"— now that we’ve got our O.W.L.s,” George said hastily. “I mean, do we really need N.E.W.T.s? But we didn’t think Mum could take us leaving school early, not on top of Percy turning out to be the world’s biggest prat."
"We’re not going to waste our last year here, though,” said Fred, looking affectionately around at the Great Hall. “We’re going to use it to do a bit of market research, find out exactly what the average Hogwarts student requires from his joke shop, carefully evaluate the results of our research, and then produce the products to fit the demand."
"But where are you going to get the gold to start a joke shop?” asked Hermione skeptically. “You’re going to need all the ingredients and materials — and premises too, I suppose . . ."
"Ask us no questions and we’ll tell you no lies, Hermione. C’mon, George, if we get there early we might be able to sell a few Extendable Ears before Herbology."
"What did that mean?” said Hermione, looking from Harry to Ron. “‘Ask us no questions . . . ’ Does that mean they’ve already got some gold to start a joke shop?"
"You know, I’ve been wondering about that,” said Ron, his brow furrowed. “They bought me a new set of dress robes this summer, and I couldn’t understand where they got the Galleons . . ."
"D’you reckon it’s true this year’s going to be really tough? Because of the exams?"
"Oh yeah,” said Ron. “Bound to be, isn’t it? O.W.L.s are really important, affect the jobs you can apply for and everything. We get career advice too, later this year, Bill told me. So you can choose what N.E.W.T.s you want to do next year."
"D’you know what you want to do after Hogwarts?"
"Not really,” said Ron slowly. “Except . . . well . . ."
"What?"
"Well, it’d be cool to be an Auror,"
"Yeah, it would,"
"But they’re, like, the elite,” said Ron. “You’ve got to be really good. What about you, Hermione?"
"I don’t know,” said Hermione. “I think I’d really like to do something worthwhile."
"An Auror’s worthwhile!"
"Yes, it is, but it’s not the only worthwhile thing,” said Hermione thoughtfully. “I mean, if I could take S.P.E.W. further . . ."
"How would it be,” she asked them coldly as they left the classroom for break (Binns drifting away through the blackboard), “if I refused to lend you my notes this year?"
"We’d fail our O.W.L.s,” said Ron. “If you want that on your conscience, Hermione . . ."
"Well, you’d deserve it,” she snapped. “You don’t even try to listen to him, do you?"
"We do try,” said Ron. “We just haven’t got your brains or your memory or your concentration — you’re just cleverer than we are — is it nice to rub it in?"
"Oh, don’t give me that rubbish,"
"Hello, Harry!"
"Hi,"
"You got that stuff off, then?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, trying to grin as though the memory of their last meeting was funny as opposed to mortifying. “So did you . . . er . . . have a good summer?"
"Oh, it was all right, you know . . ."
"Is that a Tornados badge?” Ron demanded suddenly, pointing at the front of Cho’s robes, to which a sky-blue badge emblazoned with a double gold T was pinned. “You don’t support them, do you?"
"Yeah, I do,"
"Have you always supported them, or just since they started winning the league?"
"I’ve supported them since I was six,” said Cho coolly. “Anyway . . . see you, Harry."
"You are so tactless!"
"What? I only asked her if —"
"Couldn’t you tell she wanted to talk to Harry on her own?"
"So? She could’ve done, I wasn’t stopping —"
"What on earth were you attacking her about her Quidditch team for?"
"Attacking? I wasn’t attacking her, I was only —"
"Who cares if she supports the Tornados?"
"Oh, come on, half the people you see wearing those badges only bought them last season —"
"But what does it matter?"
"It means they’re not real fans, they’re just jumping on the bandwagon —"
"That’s the bell,"
"Settle down,"
"Before we begin today’s lesson,” said Snape, sweeping over to his desk and staring around at them all, “I think it appropriate to remind you that next June you will be sitting an important examination, during which you will prove how much you have learned about the composition and use of magical potions. Moronic though some of this class undoubtedly are, I expect you to scrape an ‘Acceptable’ in your O.W.L., or suffer my . . . displeasure."
"After this year, of course, many of you will cease studying with me,” Snape went on. “I take only the very best into my N.E.W.T. Potions class, which means that some of us will certainly be saying good-bye."
"But we have another year to go before that happy moment of farewell,"
"Today we will be mixing a potion that often comes up at Ordinary Wizarding Level: the Draught of Peace, a potion to calm anxiety and soothe agitation. Be warned: If you are too heavy-handed with the ingredients you will put the drinker into a heavy and sometimes irreversible sleep, so you will need to pay close attention to what you are doing.” On Harry’s left, Hermione sat up a little straighter, her expression one of the utmost attentiveness. “The ingredients and method” — Snape flicked his wand — “are on the blackboard” — (they appeared there) — “you will find everything you need” — he flicked his wand again — “in the store cupboard” — (the door of the said cupboard sprang open) — “you have an hour and a half. . . . Start."
"A light silver vapor should now be rising from your potion,"
"Potter, what is this supposed to be?"
"The Draught of Peace,"
"Tell me, Potter,” said Snape softly, “can you read?"
"Yes, I can,"
"Read the third line of the instructions for me, Potter."
"‘Add powdered moonstone, stir three times counterclockwise, allow to simmer for seven minutes, then add two drops of syrup of hellebore.’"
"Did you do everything on the third line, Potter?"
"No,"
"I beg your pardon?"
"No,” said Harry, more loudly. “I forgot the hellebore . . ."
"I know you did, Potter, which means that this mess is utterly worthless. Evanesco."
"Those of you who have managed to read the instructions, fill one flagon with a sample of your potion, label it clearly with your name, and bring it up to my desk for testing,” said Snape. “Homework: twelve inches of parchment on the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion-making, to be handed in on Thursday."
"That was really unfair,” said Hermione consolingly, sitting down next to Harry and helping herself to shepherd’s pie. “Your potion wasn’t nearly as bad as Goyle’s, when he put it in his flagon the whole thing shattered and set his robes on fire."
"Yeah, well,” said Harry, glowering at his plate, “since when has Snape ever been fair to me?"
"I did think he might be a bit better this year,” said Hermione in a disappointed voice. “I mean . . . you know . . .” She looked carefully around; there were half a dozen empty seats on either side of them and nobody was passing the table. “. . . Now he’s in the Order and everything."
"Poisonous toadstools don’t change their spots,” said Ron sagely. “Anyway, I’ve always thought Dumbledore was cracked trusting Snape, where’s the evidence he ever really stopped working for You-Know-Who?"
"I think Dumbledore’s probably got plenty of evidence, even if he doesn’t share it with you, Ron,"
"Oh, shut up, the pair of you,” said Harry heavily, as Ron opened his mouth to argue back. Hermione and Ron both froze, looking angry and offended. “Can’t you give it a rest?” he said. “You’re always having a go at each other, it’s driving me mad."
"Come back, you scurvy dog, stand fast and fight!"
"Hermione and me have stopped arguing,"
"Good,"
"But Hermione says she thinks it would be nice if you stopped taking out your temper on us,"
"I’m not —"
"I’m just passing on the message,” said Ron, talking over him. “But I reckon she’s right. It’s not our fault how Seamus and Snape treat you."
"I never said it —"
"Good day,"
"You will find on the tables before you copies of The Dream Oracle, by Inigo Imago. Dream interpretation is a most important means of divining the future and one that may very probably be tested in your O.W.L. Not, of course, that I believe examination passes or failures are of the remotest importance when it comes to the sacred art of divination. If you have the Seeing Eye, certificates and grades matter very little. However, the headmaster likes you to sit the examination, so . . ."
"Turn, please, to the introduction and read what Imago has to say on the matter of dream interpretation. Then divide into pairs. Use The Dream Oracle to interpret each other’s most recent dreams. Carry on."
"I never remember my dreams,” said Ron. “You say one."
"You must remember one of them,"
"Well, I had one that I was playing Quidditch the other night,” said Ron, screwing up his face in an effort to remember. “What d’you reckon that means?"
"Probably that you’re going to be eaten by a giant marshmallow or something,"
"D’you realize how much homework we’ve got already? Binns set us a foot-and-a-half-long essay on giant wars, Snape wants a foot on the use of moonstones, and now we’ve got a month’s dream diary from Trelawney! Fred and George weren’t wrong about O.W.L. year, were they? That Umbridge woman had better not give us any . . ."
"Well, good afternoon!"
"Good afternoon,"
"Tut, tut,” said Professor Umbridge. “That won’t do, now, will it? I should like you, please, to reply ‘Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge.’ One more time, please. Good afternoon, class!"
"Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,"
"There, now,” said Professor Umbridge sweetly. “That wasn’t too difficult, was it? Wands away and quills out, please."
"wands away"
"Well now, your teaching in this subject has been rather disrupted and fragmented, hasn’t it?"
"You will be pleased to know, however, that these problems are now to be rectified. We will be following a carefully structured, theory-centered, Ministry-approved course of defensive magic this year. Copy down the following, please."
"Has everybody got a copy of Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?"
"I think we’ll try that again,” said Professor Umbridge. “When I ask you a question, I should like you to reply ‘Yes, Professor Umbridge,’ or ‘No, Professor Umbridge.’ So, has everyone got a copy of Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?"
"Yes, Professor Umbridge,"
"Good,” said Professor Umbridge. “I should like you to turn to page five and read chapter one, ‘Basics for Beginners.’ There will be no need to talk."
"Basics for Beginners."
"Did you want to ask something about the chapter, dear?"
"Not about the chapter, no,"
"Well, we’re reading just now,” said Professor Umbridge, showing her small, pointed teeth. “If you have other queries we can deal with them at the end of class."
"I’ve got a query about your course aims,"
"And your name is — ?"
"Hermione Granger,"
"Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are perfectly clear if you read them through carefully,"
"Well, I don’t,” said Hermione bluntly. “There’s nothing written up there about using defensive spells."
"Using defensive spells?” Professor Umbridge repeated with a little laugh. “Why, I can’t imagine any situation arising in my classroom that would require you to use a defensive spell, Miss Granger. You surely aren’t expecting to be attacked during class?"
"We’re not going to use magic?"
"Students raise their hands when they wish to speak in my class, Mr. — ?"
"Weasley,"
"Yes, Miss Granger? You wanted to ask something else?"
"Yes,” said Hermione. “Surely the whole point of Defense Against the Dark Arts is to practice defensive spells?"
"Are you a Ministry-trained educational expert, Miss Granger?"
"No, but —"
"Well then, I’m afraid you are not qualified to decide what the ‘whole point’ of any class is. Wizards much older and cleverer than you have devised our new program of study. You will be learning about defensive spells in a secure, risk-free way —"
"What use is that?” said Harry loudly. “If we’re going to be attacked it won’t be in a —"
"Hand, Mr. Potter!"
"And your name is?"
"Dean Thomas."
"Well, Mr. Thomas?"
"Well, it’s like Harry said, isn’t it?” said Dean. “If we’re going to be attacked, it won’t be risk-free —"
"I repeat,” said Professor Umbridge, smiling in a very irritating fashion at Dean, “do you expect to be attacked during my classes?"
"No, but —"
"I do not wish to criticize the way things have been run in this school,” she said, an unconvincing smile stretching her wide mouth, “but you have been exposed to some very irresponsible wizards in this class, very irresponsible indeed — not to mention,” she gave a nasty little laugh, “extremely dangerous half-breeds."
"If you mean Professor Lupin,” piped up Dean Thomas angrily, “he was the best we ever —"
"Hand, Mr. Thomas! As I was saying — you have been introduced to spells that have been complex, inappropriate to your age group, and potentially lethal. You have been frightened into believing that you are likely to meet Dark attacks every other day —"
"No we haven’t,” Hermione said, “we just —"
"Your hand is not up, Miss Granger!"
"It is my understanding that my predecessor not only performed illegal curses in front of you, he actually performed them on you —"
"Well, he turned out to be a maniac, didn’t he?” said Dean Thomas hotly. “Mind you, we still learned loads —"
"Your hand is not up, Mr. Thomas!” trilled Professor Umbridge. “Now, it is the view of the Ministry that a theoretical knowledge will be more than sufficient to get you through your examination, which, after all, is what school is all about. And your name is?"
"Parvati Patil, and isn’t there a practical bit in our Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L.? Aren’t we supposed to show that we can actually do the countercurses and things?"
"As long as you have studied the theory hard enough, there is no reason why you should not be able to perform the spells under carefully controlled examination conditions,"
"Without ever practicing them before?” said Parvati incredulously. “Are you telling us that the first time we’ll get to do the spells will be during our exam?"
"I repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard enough —"
"And what good’s theory going to be in the real world?"
"This is school, Mr. Potter, not the real world,"
"So we’re not supposed to be prepared for what’s waiting out there?"
"There is nothing waiting out there, Mr. Potter."
"Oh yeah?"
"Who do you imagine wants to attack children like yourselves?"
"Hmm, let’s think . . .” said Harry in a mock thoughtful voice, “maybe Lord Voldemort?"
"Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr. Potter."
"Now, let me make a few things quite plain."
"You have been told that a certain Dark wizard has returned from the dead —"
"He wasn’t dead,” said Harry angrily, “but yeah, he’s returned!"
"Mr.-Potter-you-have-already-lost-your-House-ten-points-do-not-make-matters-worse-for-yourself,” said Professor Umbridge in one breath without looking at him. “As I was saying, you have been informed that a certain Dark wizard is at large once again. This is a lie."
"It is NOT a lie!” said Harry. “I saw him, I fought him!"
"Detention, Mr. Potter!” said Professor Umbridge triumphantly. “Tomorrow evening. Five o’clock. My office. I repeat, this is a lie. The Ministry of Magic guarantees that you are not in danger from any Dark wizard. If you are still worried, by all means come and see me outside class hours. If someone is alarming you with fibs about reborn Dark wizards, I would like to hear about it. I am here to help. I am your friend. And now, you will kindly continue your reading. Page five, ‘Basics for Beginners.’"
"Harry, no!"
"So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of his own accord, did he?"
"Cedric Diggory’s death was a tragic accident,"
"It was murder,” said Harry. He could feel himself shaking. He had hardly talked to anyone about this, least of all thirty eagerly listening classmates. “Voldemort killed him, and you know it."
"Come here, Mr. Potter, dear."
"Take this to Professor McGonagall, dear,"
"Why, it’s Potty Wee Potter!"
"Get out of it, Peeves."
"Oooh, Crackpot’s feeling cranky,” said Peeves, pursuing Harry along the corridor, leering as he zoomed along above him. “What is it this time, my fine Potty friend? Hearing voices? Seeing visions? Speaking in” — Peeves blew a gigantic raspberry — “tongues?"
"I said, leave me ALONE!"
"SHUT UP!"
"What on earth are you shouting about, Potter?” she snapped, as Peeves cackled gleefully and zoomed out of sight. “Why aren’t you in class?"
"I’ve been sent to see you,"
"Sent? What do you mean, sent?"
"Come in here, Potter."
"Well?” said Professor McGonagall, rounding on him. “Is this true?"
"Is what true?” Harry asked, rather more aggressively than he had intended. “Professor?"
"Is it true that you shouted at Professor Umbridge?"
"Yes,"
"You called her a liar?"
"Yes."
"You told her He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back?"
"Yes."
"Have a biscuit, Potter."
"Have — what?"
"Have a biscuit,” she repeated impatiently, indicating a tartan tin of cookies lying on top of one of the piles of papers on her desk. “And sit down."
"Potter, you need to be careful."
"Misbehavior in Dolores Umbridge’s class could cost you much more than House points and a detention."
"What do you — ?"
"Potter, use your common sense,” snapped Professor McGonagall, with an abrupt return to her usual manner. “You know where she comes from, you must know to whom she is reporting."
"It says here she’s given you detention every evening this week, starting tomorrow,"
"Every evening this week!” Harry repeated, horrified. “But, Professor, couldn’t you — ?"
"No, I couldn’t,"
"But —"
"She is your teacher and has every right to give you detention. You will go to her room at five o’clock tomorrow for the first one. Just remember: Tread carefully around Dolores Umbridge."
"But I was telling the truth!” said Harry, outraged. “Voldemort’s back, you know he is, Professor Dumbledore knows he is —"
"For heaven’s sake, Potter!” said Professor McGonagall, straightening her glasses angrily (she had winced horribly when he had used Voldemort’s name). “Do you really think this is about truth or lies? It’s about keeping your head down and your temper under control!"
"Have another biscuit,"
"No, thanks,"
"Don’t be ridiculous,"
"Thanks,"
"Didn’t you listen to Dolores Umbridge’s speech at the start-of-term feast, Potter?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah . . . she said . . . progress will be prohibited or . . . well, it meant that . . . that the Ministry of Magic is trying to interfere at Hogwarts."
"Well, I’m glad you listen to Hermione Granger at any rate,"
"He says he saw Cedric Diggory murdered . . ."
"He reckons he dueled with You-Know-Who . . ."
"Come off it . . ."
"Who does he think he’s kidding?"
"Pur-lease . . ."
"What I don’t get,” said Harry in a shaking voice, laying down his knife and fork (his hands were trembling too much to hold them steady), “is why they all believed the story two months ago when Dumbledore told them . . ."
"The thing is, Harry, I’m not sure they did,” said Hermione grimly. “Oh, let’s get out of here."
"What d’you mean, you’re not sure they believed Dumbledore?"
"Look, you don’t understand what it was like after it happened,” said Hermione quietly. “You arrived back in the middle of the lawn clutching Cedric’s dead body. . . . None of us saw what happened in the maze. . . . We just had Dumbledore’s word for it that You-Know-Who had come back and killed Cedric and fought you."
"Which is the truth!"
"I know it is, Harry, so will you please stop biting my head off?” said Hermione wearily. “It’s just that before the truth could sink in, everyone went home for the summer, where they spent two months reading about how you’re a nutcase and Dumbledore’s going senile!"
"Mimbulus mimbletonia,"
"How can Dumbledore have let this happen?” Hermione cried suddenly, making Harry and Ron jump; Crookshanks leapt off her, looking affronted. She pounded the arms of her chair in fury, so that bits of stuffing leaked out of the holes. “How can he let that terrible woman teach us? And in our O.W.L. year too!"
"Well, we’ve never had great Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers, have we?” said Harry. “You know what it’s like, Hagrid told us, nobody wants the job, they say it’s jinxed."
"Yes, but to employ someone who’s actually refusing to let us do magic! What’s Dumbledore playing at?"
"And she’s trying to get people to spy for her,” said Ron darkly. “Remember when she said she wanted us to come and tell her if we hear anyone saying You-Know-Who’s back?"
"Of course she’s here to spy on us all, that’s obvious, why else would Fudge have wanted her to come?"
"Don’t start arguing again,” said Harry wearily, as Ron opened his mouth to retaliate. “Can’t we just . . . Let’s just do that homework, get it out of the way . . ."
"Shall we do Snape’s stuff first?” said Ron, dipping his quill into his ink. “‘The properties . . . of moonstone . . . and its uses . . . in potion-making . . .’” he muttered, writing the words across the top of his parchment as he spoke them. “There."
"So what are the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion-making?"
"No, I’m sorry, they’ve gone too far,” she said, standing up and looking positively furious. “Come on, Ron."
"I — what?” said Ron, plainly playing for time. “No — come on, Hermione — we can’t tell them off for giving out sweets . . ."
"You know perfectly well that those are bits of Nosebleed Nougat or — or Puking Pastilles or —"
"Fainting Fancies?"
"She’s got it under control,"
"That’s enough!"
"Yeah, you’re right,” said George, nodding, “this dosage looks strong enough, doesn’t it?"
"I told you this morning, you can’t test your rubbish on students!"
"We’re paying them!"
"I don’t care, it could be dangerous!"
"Rubbish,"
"Calm down, Hermione, they’re fine!"
"Yeah, look, they’re coming round now,"
"Feel all right?"
"I-I think so,"
"Excellent,"
"It is NOT excellent!"
"’Course it is, they’re alive, aren’t they?"
"You can’t do this, what if you made one of them really ill?"
"We’re not going to make them ill, we’ve already tested them all on ourselves, this is just to see if everyone reacts the same —"
"If you don’t stop doing it, I’m going to —"
"Put us in detention?"
"Make us write lines?"
"No,” she said, her voice quivering with anger, “but I will write to your mother."
"You wouldn’t,"
"Oh, yes, I would,” said Hermione grimly. “I can’t stop you eating the stupid things yourselves, but you’re not giving them to first years."
"Thank you for your support, Ron,"
"You handled it fine by yourself,"
"Oh, it’s no good, I can’t concentrate now. I’m going to bed."
"What in the name of Merlin are you doing?"
"They’re hats for house-elves,” she said briskly, now stuffing her books back into her bag. “I did them over the summer. I’m a really slow knitter without magic, but now I’m back at school I should be able to make lots more."
"You’re leaving out hats for the house-elves?” said Ron slowly. “And you’re covering them up with rubbish first?"
"Yes,"
"That’s not on,” said Ron angrily. “You’re trying to trick them into picking up the hats. You’re setting them free when they might not want to be free."
"Of course they want to be free!” said Hermione at once, though her face was turning pink. “Don’t you dare touch those hats, Ron!"
"They should at least see what they’re picking up,” he said firmly. “Anyway . . .” He rolled up the parchment on which he had written the title of Snape’s essay. “There’s no point trying to finish this now, I can’t do it without Hermione, I haven’t got a clue what you’re supposed to do with moonstones, have you?"
"I’m going to bed too."
"But on the plus side, no Snape today,"
"The hats have gone. Seems the house-elves do want freedom after all."
"I wouldn’t bet on it,” Ron told her cuttingly. “They might not count as clothes. They didn’t look anything like hats to me, more like woolly bladders."
"What you must remember,” said little Professor Flitwick squeakily, perched as ever on a pile of books so that he could see over the top of his desk, “is that these examinations may influence your futures for many years to come! If you have not already given serious thought to your careers, now is the time to do so. And in the meantime, I’m afraid, we shall be working harder than ever to ensure that you all do yourselves justice!"
"You cannot pass an O.W.L.,” said Professor McGonagall grimly, “without serious application, practice, and study. I see no reason why everybody in this class should not achieve an O.W.L. in Transfiguration as long as they put in the work.” Neville made a sad little disbelieving noise. “Yes, you too, Longbottom,” said Professor McGonagall. “There’s nothing wrong with your work except lack of confidence. So . . . today we are starting Vanishing Spells. These are easier than Conjuring Spells, which you would not usually attempt until N.E.W.T. level, but they are still among the most difficult magic you will be tested on in your O.W.L."
"Everyone here?” barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, once all the Slytherins and Gryffindors had arrived. “Let’s crack on then — who can tell me what these things are called?"
"Oooooh!"
"Kindly keep your voices down, girls!” said Professor Grubbly-Plank sharply, scattering a handful of what looked like brown rice among the stick-creatures, who immediately fell upon the food. “So — anyone know the names of these creatures? Miss Granger?"
"Bowtruckles,” said Hermione. “They’re tree-guardians, usually live in wand-trees."
"Five points for Gryffindor,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank. “Yes, these are bowtruckles and, as Miss Granger rightly says, they generally live in trees whose wood is of wand quality. Anybody know what they eat?"
"Wood lice,” said Hermione promptly, which explained why what Harry had taken for grains of brown rice were moving. “But fairy eggs if they can get them."
"Good girl, take another five points. So whenever you need leaves or wood from a tree in which a bowtruckle lodges, it is wise to have a gift of wood lice ready to distract or placate it. They may not look dangerous, but if angered they will gouge out human eyes with their fingers, which, as you can see, are very sharp and not at all desirable near the eyeballs. So if you’d like to gather closer, take a few wood lice and a bowtruckle — I have enough here for one between three — you can study them more closely. I want a sketch from each of you with all body parts labeled by the end of the lesson."
"Where’s Hagrid?"
"Never you mind,"
"Maybe,” said Malfoy in an undertone, so that only Harry could hear him, “the stupid great oaf’s got himself badly injured."
"Maybe you will if you don’t shut up,"
"Maybe he’s been messing with stuff that’s too big for him, if you get my drift."
"Dumbledore would know if something had happened to Hagrid,” said Hermione at once. “It’s just playing into Malfoy’s hands to look worried, it tells him we don’t know exactly what’s going on. We’ve got to ignore him, Harry. Here, hold the bowtruckle for a moment, just so I can draw its face . . ."
"Yes,” came Malfoy’s clear drawl from the group nearest them, “Father was talking to the Minister just a couple of days ago, you know, and it sounds as though the Ministry’s really determined to crack down on substandard teaching in this place. So even if that overgrown moron does show up again, he’ll probably be sent packing straight away."
"OUCH!"
"If he calls Hagrid a moron one more time . . ."
"Harry, don’t go picking a row with Malfoy, don’t forget, he’s a prefect now, he could make life difficult for you . . ."
"Wow, I wonder what it’d be like to have a difficult life?"
"I just wish Hagrid would hurry up and get back, that’s all,” said Harry in a low voice, as they reached the greenhouses. “And don’t say that Grubbly-Plank woman’s a better teacher!"
"I wasn’t going to,"
"Because she’ll never be as good as Hagrid,"
"Hi,” she said brightly as she passed. A few seconds later, Luna Lovegood emerged, trailing behind the rest of the class, a smudge of earth on her nose and her hair tied in a knot on the top of her head. When she saw Harry, her prominent eyes seemed to bulge excitedly and she made a beeline straight for him. Many of his classmates turned curiously to watch. Luna took a great breath and then said, without so much as a preliminary hello: “I believe He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back, and I believe you fought him and escaped from him."
"Er — right,"
"You can laugh!” Luna said, her voice rising, apparently under the impression that Parvati and Lavender were laughing at what she had said rather than what she was wearing. “But people used to believe there were no such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned Snorkack!"
"Well, they were right, weren’t they?” said Hermione impatiently. “There weren’t any such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned Snorkack."
"D’you mind not offending the only people who believe me?"
"Oh, for heaven’s sake, Harry, you can do better than her,” said Hermione. “Ginny’s told me all about her, apparently she’ll only believe in things as long as there’s no proof at all. Well, I wouldn’t expect anything else from someone whose father runs The Quibbler."
"I want you to know, Potter,” he said in a loud, carrying voice, “that it’s not only weirdos who support you. I personally believe you one hundred percent. My family have always stood firm behind Dumbledore, and so do I."
"Er — thanks very much, Ernie,"
"Oy, Potter!"
"What now?"
"I’ll tell you what now,” she said, marching straight up to him and poking him hard in the chest with her finger. “How come you’ve landed yourself in detention for five o’clock on Friday?"
"What?” said Harry. “Why . . . oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!"
"Now he remembers!” snarled Angelina. “Didn’t I tell you I wanted to do a tryout with the whole team, and find someone who fitted in with everyone? Didn’t I tell you I’d booked the Quidditch pitch specially? And now you’ve decided you’re not going to be there!"
"I didn’t decide not to be there!” said Harry, stung by the injustice of these words. “I got detention from that Umbridge woman, just because I told her the truth about You-Know-Who —"
"Well, you can just go straight to her and ask her to let you off on Friday,” said Angelina fiercely, “and I don’t care how you do it, tell her You-Know-Who’s a figment of your imagination if you like, just make sure you’re there!"
"You know what?” Harry said to Ron and Hermione as they entered the Great Hall. “I think we’d better check with Puddlemere United whether Oliver Wood’s been killed during a training session, because she seems to be channeling his spirit."
"What d’you reckon are the odds of Umbridge letting you off on Friday?"
"Less than zero,” said Harry glumly, tipping lamb chops onto his plate and starting to eat. “Better try, though, hadn’t I? I’ll offer to do two more detentions or something, I dunno . . .” He swallowed a mouthful of potato and added, “I hope she doesn’t keep me too long this evening. You realize we’ve got to write three essays, practice Vanishing Spells for McGonagall, work out a countercharm for Flitwick, finish the bowtruckle drawing, and start that stupid dream diary for Trelawney?"
"And it looks like it’s going to rain."
"What’s that got to do with our homework?"
"Nothing,"
"Come in,"
"Good evening, Mr. Potter."
"Evening,"
"Well, sit down,"
"Er,” said Harry, without moving. “Professor Umbridge? Er — before we start, I-I wanted to ask you a . . . a favor."
"Oh yes?"
"Well I’m . . . I’m on the Gryffindor Quidditch team. And I was supposed to be at the tryouts for the new Keeper at five o’clock on Friday and I was — was wondering whether I could skip detention that night and do it — do it another night . . . instead . . ."
"Oh no,” said Umbridge, smiling so widely that she looked as though she had just swallowed a particularly juicy fly. “Oh no, no, no. This is your punishment for spreading evil, nasty, attention-seeking stories, Mr. Potter, and punishments certainly cannot be adjusted to suit the guilty one’s convenience. No, you will come here at five o’clock tomorrow, and the next day, and on Friday too, and you will do your detentions as planned. I think it rather a good thing that you are missing something you really want to do. It ought to reinforce the lesson I am trying to teach you."
"There,” said Umbridge sweetly, “we’re getting better at controlling our temper already, aren’t we? Now, you are going to be doing some lines for me, Mr. Potter. No, not with your quill,” she added, as Harry bent down to open his bag. “You’re going to be using a rather special one of mine. Here you are."
"I want you to write ‘I must not tell lies,’"
"How many times?"
"Oh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in,” said Umbridge sweetly. “Off you go."
"You haven’t given me any ink,"
"Oh, you won’t need ink,"
"Yes?"
"Nothing,"
"Come here,"
"Hand,"
"Tut, tut, I don’t seem to have made much of an impression yet,” she said, smiling. “Well, we’ll just have to try again tomorrow evening, won’t we? You may go."
"How come you didn’t do it last night?” Harry asked, as Ron stared wildly around the common room for inspiration. Ron, who had been fast asleep when Harry got back to the dormitory, muttered something about “doing other stuff,"
"That’ll have to do,” he said, slamming the diary shut, “I’ve said I dreamed I was buying a new pair of shoes, she can’t make anything weird out of that, can she?"
"How was detention with Umbridge, anyway? What did she make you do?"
"Lines."
"That’s not too bad, then, eh?"
"Nope,"
"Hey — I forgot — did she let you off for Friday?"
"No,"
"I’m in detention!” Harry yelled after her as she stalked away. “D’you think I’d rather be stuck in a room with that old toad or playing Quidditch?"
"At least it’s only lines,” said Hermione consolingly, as Harry sank back onto his bench and looked down at his steak-and-kidney pie, which he no longer fancied very much. “It’s not as if it’s a dreadful punishment, really . . ."
"I can’t believe how much homework we’ve got,"
"Well, why didn’t you do any last night?” Hermione asked him. “Where were you anyway?"
"I was . . . I fancied a walk,"
"Good evening” and “Good night."
"I must not tell lies"
"Ah,” she said softly, moving around her desk to examine his hand herself. “Good. That ought to serve as a reminder to you, oughtn’t it? You may leave for tonight."
"Do I still have to come back tomorrow?"
"Oh yes,” said Professor Umbridge, smiling widely as before. “Yes, I think we can etch the message a little deeper with another evening’s work."
"Ron?"
"What are you doing?"
"Er — nothing. What are you doing?"
"Come on, you can tell me! What are you hiding here for?"
"I’m — I’m hiding from Fred and George, if you must know,” said Ron. “They just went past with a bunch of first years, I bet they’re testing stuff on them again, I mean, they can’t do it in the common room now, can they, not with Hermione there."
"But what have you got your broom for, you haven’t been flying, have you?"
"I — well — well, okay, I’ll tell you, but don’t laugh, all right?” Ron said defensively, turning redder with every second. “I-I thought I’d try out for Gryffindor Keeper now I’ve got a decent broom. There. Go on. Laugh."
"I’m not laughing,” said Harry. Ron blinked. “It’s a brilliant idea! It’d be really cool if you got on the team! I’ve never seen you play Keeper, are you good?"
"I’m not bad,” said Ron, who looked immensely relieved at Harry’s reaction. “Charlie, Fred, and George always made me Keep for them when they were training during the holidays."
"So you’ve been practicing tonight?"
"Every evening since Tuesday . . . just on my own, though, I’ve been trying to bewitch Quaffles to fly at me, but it hasn’t been easy and I don’t know how much use it’ll be.” Ron looked nervous and anxious. “Fred and George are going to laugh themselves stupid when I turn up for the tryouts. They haven’t stopped taking the mickey out of me since I got made a prefect."
"I wish I was going to be there,"
"Yeah, so do — Harry, what’s that on the back of your hand?"
"It’s just a cut — it’s nothing — it’s —"
"I thought you said she was giving you lines?"
"The old hag!” Ron said in a revolted whisper as they came to a halt in front of the Fat Lady, who was dozing peacefully with her head against her frame. “She’s sick! Go to McGonagall, say something!"
"No,” said Harry at once. “I’m not giving her the satisfaction of knowing she’s got to me."
"Got to you? You can’t let her get away with this!"
"I don’t know how much power McGonagall’s got over her,"
"Dumbledore, then, tell Dumbledore!"
"No,"
"Why not?"
"He’s got enough on his mind,"
"Well, I reckon you should —” Ron began, but he was interrupted by the Fat Lady, who had been watching them sleepily and now burst out, “Are you going to give me the password or will I have to stay awake all night waiting for you to finish your conversation?"
"You know what to do, Mr. Potter,"
"Let’s see if you’ve gotten the message yet, shall we?"
"Yes, it hurts, doesn’t it?"
"Well, I think I’ve made my point, Mr. Potter. You may go."
"Mimbulus mimbletonia!"
"Harry, I did it, I’m in, I’m Keeper!"
"What? Oh — brilliant!"
"Have a butterbeer.” Ron pressed a bottle onto him. “I can’t believe it — where’s Hermione gone?"
"She’s there,"
"Well, she said she was pleased when I told her,"
"Let her sleep,"
"Come here, Ron, and see if Oliver’s old robes fit you,” called Katie Bell. “We can take off his name and put yours on instead . . ."
"Sorry I was a bit short with you earlier, Potter,” she said abruptly. “It’s stressful, this managing lark, you know, I’m starting to think I was a bit hard on Wood sometimes."
"Look, I know he’s your best mate, but he’s not fabulous,” she said bluntly. “I think with a bit of training he’ll be all right, though. He comes from a family of good Quidditch players. I’m banking on him turning out to have a bit more talent than he showed today, to be honest. Vicky Frobisher and Geoffrey Hooper both flew better this evening, but Hooper’s a real whiner, he’s always moaning about something or other, and Vicky’s involved in all sorts of societies, she admitted herself that if training clashed with her Charm Club she’d put Charms first. Anyway, we’re having a practice session at two o’clock tomorrow, so just make sure you’re there this time. And do me a favor and help Ron as much as you can, okay?"
"Oh, Harry, it’s you. . . . Good about Ron, isn’t it?” she said blearily. “I’m just so — so — so tired,” she yawned. “I was up until one o’clock making more hats. They’re disappearing like mad!"
"Great,” said Harry distractedly; if he did not tell somebody soon, he would burst. “Listen, Hermione, I was just up in Umbridge’s office and she touched my arm . . ."
"You’re worried that You-Know-Who’s controlling her like he controlled Quirrell?"
"Well,” said Harry, dropping his voice, “it’s a possibility, isn’t it?"
"I suppose so,” said Hermione, though she sounded unconvinced. “But I don’t think he can be possessing her the way he possessed Quirrell, I mean, he’s properly alive again now, isn’t he, he’s got his own body, he wouldn’t need to share someone else’s. He could have her under the Imperius Curse, I suppose . . ."
"But last year your scar hurt when nobody was touching you, and didn’t Dumbledore say it had to do with what You-Know-Who was feeling at the time? I mean, maybe this hasn’t got anything to do with Umbridge at all, maybe it’s just coincidence it happened while you were with her?"
"She’s evil,” said Harry flatly. “Twisted."
"She’s horrible, yes, but . . . Harry, I think you ought to tell Dumbledore your scar hurt."
"I’m not bothering him with this. Like you just said, it’s not a big deal. It’s been hurting on and off all summer — it was just a bit worse tonight, that’s all —"
"Harry, I’m sure Dumbledore would want to be bothered by this —"
"Yeah,” said Harry, before he could stop himself, “that’s the only bit of me Dumbledore cares about, isn’t it, my scar?"
"Don’t say that, it’s not true!"
"I think I’ll write and tell Sirius about it, see what he thinks —"
"Harry, you can’t put something like that in a letter!” said Hermione, looking alarmed. “Don’t you remember, Moody told us to be careful what we put in writing! We just can’t guarantee owls aren’t being intercepted anymore!"
"All right, all right, I won’t tell him, then!” said Harry irritably. He got to his feet. “I’m going to bed. Tell Ron for me, will you?"
"Oh no,” said Hermione, looking relieved, “if you’re going that means I can go without being rude too, I’m absolutely exhausted and I want to make some more hats tomorrow. Listen, you can help me if you like, it’s quite fun, I’m getting better, I can do patterns and bobbles and all sorts of things now."
"Er . . . no, I don’t think I will, thanks,” he said. “Er — not tomorrow. I’ve got loads of homework to do . . ."
"I would not go that way if I were you,” said Nearly Headless Nick, drifting disconcertingly through a wall just ahead of him as he walked down the passage. “Peeves is planning an amusing joke on the next person to pass the bust of Paracelsus halfway down the corridor."
"Does it involve Paracelsus falling on top of the person’s head?"
"Funnily enough, it does,” said Nearly Headless Nick in a bored voice. “Subtlety has never been Peeves’s strong point. I’m off to try and find the Bloody Baron. . . . He might be able to put a stop to it. . . . See you, Harry . . ."
"Yeah, ’bye,"
"I’m not doing anything wrong,"
"There you are,” he said, spotting her somewhere near the very top of the vaulted ceiling. “Get down here, I’ve got a letter for you."
"Right, I know this says ‘Snuffles’ on the outside,” he told her, giving her the letter to clasp in her beak and, without knowing exactly why, whispering, “but it’s for Sirius, okay?"
"Safe flight, then,"
"Hi,"
"Oh . . . hi,” she said breathlessly. “I didn’t think anyone would be up here this early. . . . I only remembered five minutes ago, it’s my mum’s birthday."
"Right,"
"Nice day,"
"Yeah,” said Cho, looking around for a suitable owl. “Good Quidditch conditions. I haven’t been out all week, have you?"
"No,"
"Hey, has Gryffindor got a new Keeper yet?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “It’s my friend Ron Weasley, d’you know him?"
"The Tornado-hater?” said Cho rather coolly. “Is he any good?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, “I think so. I didn’t see his tryout, though, I was in detention."
"That Umbridge woman’s foul,” she said in a low voice. “Putting you in detention just because you told the truth about how — how — how he died. Everyone heard about it, it was all over the school. You were really brave standing up to her like that."
"Aha!” said Filch, taking a flat-footed step toward Harry, his pouchy cheeks trembling with anger. “I’ve had a tip-off that you are intending to place a massive order for Dungbombs!"
"Who told you I was ordering Dungbombs?"
"I have my sources,” said Filch in a self-satisfied hiss. “Now hand over whatever it is you’re sending."
"I can’t, it’s gone."
"Gone?"
"Gone,"
"How do I know you haven’t got it in your pocket?"
"Because —"
"I saw him send it,"
"You saw him — ?"
"That’s right, I saw him,"
"If I get so much as a whiff of a Dungbomb . . ."
"Thanks,"
"No problem,” said Cho, finally fixing the parcel to the barn owl’s other leg, her face slightly pink. “You weren’t ordering Dungbombs, were you?"
"No,"
"I wonder why he thought you were, then?"
"I’m going this way. Well, I’ll . . . I’ll see you around, Harry."
"Yeah . . . see you."
"Morning,"
"What are you looking so pleased about?"
"Erm . . . Quidditch later,"
"Oh . . . yeah . . .” said Ron. He put down the bit of toast he was eating and took a large swig of pumpkin juice. Then he said, “Listen . . . you don’t fancy going out a bit earlier with me, do you? Just to — er — give me some practice before training? So I can, you know, get my eye in a bit . . ."
"Yeah, okay,"
"Look, I don’t think you should,” said Hermione seriously, “you’re both really behind on homework as it —"
"Anything interesting?"
"No,” she sighed, “just some guff about the bass player in the Weird Sisters getting married . . ."
"Wait a moment,” said Hermione suddenly. “Oh no . . . Sirius!"
"What’s happened?"
"‘The Ministry of Magic has received a tip-off from a reliable source that Sirius Black, notorious mass murderer . . . blah blah blah . . . is currently hiding in London!’"
"Lucius Malfoy, I’ll bet anything,” said Harry in a low, furious voice. “He did recognize Sirius on the platform . . ."
"What?” said Ron, looking alarmed. “You didn’t say —"
"Shh!"
". . . ‘Ministry warns Wizarding community that Black is very dangerous . . . killed thirteen people . . . broke out of Azkaban . . .’ the usual rubbish,” Hermione concluded, laying down her half of the paper and looking fearfully at Harry and Ron. “Well, he just won’t be able to leave the house again, that’s all,” she whispered. “Dumbledore did warn him not to."
"Hey!” he said, flattening it down so Hermione and Ron could both see it. “Look at this!"
"I’ve got all the robes I want,"
"No,” said Harry, “look . . . this little piece here . . ."
"Sturgis Podmore?” said Ron slowly, “but he’s that bloke who looks like his head’s been thatched, isn’t he? He’s one of the Ord —"
"Ron, shh!"
"Six months in Azkaban!” whispered Harry, shocked. “Just for trying to get through a door!"
"Don’t be silly, it wasn’t just for trying to get through a door — what on earth was he doing at the Ministry of Magic at one o’clock in the morning?"
"D’you reckon he was doing something for the Order?"
"Wait a moment . . .” said Harry slowly. “Sturgis was supposed to come and see us off, remember?"
"Yeah, he was supposed to be part of our guard going to King’s Cross, remember? And Moody was all annoyed because he didn’t turn up, so that doesn’t seem like he was supposed to be on a job for them, does it?"
"Well, maybe they didn’t expect him to get caught,"
"It could be a frame-up!” Ron exclaimed excitedly. “No — listen!” he went on, dropping his voice dramatically at the threatening look on Hermione’s face. “The Ministry suspects he’s one of Dumbledore’s lot so — I dunno — they lured him to the Ministry, and he wasn’t trying to get through a door at all! Maybe they’ve just made something up to get him!"
"Do you know, I wouldn’t be at all surprised if that were true."
"Right, well, I think we should tackle that essay for Sprout on Self-Fertilizing Shrubs first, and if we’re lucky we’ll be able to start McGonagall’s Inanimatus Conjurus before lunch . . ."
"I mean, we can do it tonight,” said Ron, as he and Harry walked down the sloping lawns toward the Quidditch pitch, their broomsticks over their shoulders, Hermione’s dire warnings that they would fail all their O.W.L.s still ringing in their ears. “And we’ve got tomorrow. She gets too worked up about work, that’s her trouble . . .” There was a pause and he added, in a slightly more anxious tone, “D’you think she meant it when she said we weren’t copying from her?"
"Yeah, I do,” said Harry. “Still, this is important too, we’ve got to practice if we want to stay on the Quidditch team . . ."
"Yeah, that’s right,” said Ron in a heartened tone. “And we have got plenty of time to do it all . . ."
"All right, Ron?"
"Yeah,"
"Ready to show us all up, Ickle Prefect?"
"Shut up,"
"Okay everyone,” said Angelina, entering from the Captain’s office, already changed. “Let’s get to it; Alicia and Fred, if you can just bring the ball crate out for us. Oh, and there are a couple of people out there watching but I want you to just ignore them, all right?"
"What’s that Weasley’s riding?” Malfoy called in his sneering drawl. “Why would anyone put a Flying Charm on a moldy old log like that?"
"Ignore them,” he said, accelerating to catch up with Ron. “We’ll see who’s laughing after we play them . . ."
"Exactly the attitude I want, Harry,” said Angelina approvingly, soaring around them with the Quaffle under her arm and slowing to hover on the spot in front of her airborne team. “Okay everyone, we’re going to start with some passes just to warm up, the whole team please —"
"Hey, Johnson, what’s with that hairstyle anyway?” shrieked Pansy Parkinson from below. “Why would anyone want to look like they’ve got worms coming out of their head?"
"Spread out, then, and let’s see what we can do . . ."
"Pass it on, Ron,"
"Hey, Potter, how’s your scar feeling?” called Malfoy. “Sure you don’t need a lie-down? It must be, what, a whole week since you were in the hospital wing, that’s a record for you, isn’t it?"
"Come on now, Ron,” said Angelina crossly, as Ron dived for the ground again, chasing the Quaffle. “Pay attention."
"Sorry!"
"Get back in position, she’s fine!” barked Angelina. “But as you’re passing to a teammate, do try not to knock her off her broom, won’t you? We’ve got Bludgers for that!"
"Here, take this,” Fred told her, handing her something small and purple from out of his pocket. “It’ll clear it up in no time."
"All right,” called Angelina, “Fred, George, go and get your bats and a Bludger; Ron, get up to the goalposts, Harry, release the Snitch when I say so. We’re going to aim for Ron’s goal, obviously."
"Ron’s making a right pig’s ear of things, isn’t he?"
"He’s just nervous,” said Harry. “He was fine when I was practicing with him this morning."
"Yeah, well, I hope he hasn’t peaked too soon,"
"Stop — stop — STOP!” screamed Angelina. “Ron — you’re not covering your middle post!"
"Oh . . . sorry . . ."
"You keep shifting around while you’re watching the Chasers!” said Angelina. “Either stay in center position until you have to move to defend a hoop, or else circle the hoops, but don’t drift vaguely off to one side, that’s how you let in the last three goals!"
"Sorry . . ."
"And Katie, can’t you do something about that nosebleed?"
"It’s just getting worse!"
"Well, let’s try again,” said Angelina. She was ignoring the Slytherins, who had now set up a chant of “Gryffindor are losers, Gryffindor are losers,"
"What now?"
"Katie,"
"She needs the hospital wing,"
"We’ll take her,” said Fred. “She — er — might have swallowed a Blood Blisterpod by mistake —"
"Well, there’s no point continuing with no Beaters and a Chaser gone,” said Angelina glumly, as Fred and George zoomed off toward the castle supporting Katie between them. “Come on, let’s go and get changed."
"How was practice?"
"It was —"
"Completely lousy,"
"Well, it was only your first one,” she said consolingly, “it’s bound to take time to —"
"Who said it was me who made it lousy?"
"No one,” said Hermione, looking taken aback, “I thought —"
"You thought I was bound to be rubbish?"
"No, of course I didn’t! Look, you said it was lousy so I just —"
"I’m going to get started on some homework,"
"Was he lousy?"
"No,"
"Well, I suppose he could’ve played better,” Harry muttered, “but it was only the first training session, like you said . . ."
"Gryffindor are losers"
"You know, we probably should try and get more homework done during the week,"
"Yeah,” said Ron, rubbing slightly bloodshot eyes and throwing his fifth spoiled bit of parchment into the fire beside them. “Listen . . . shall we just ask Hermione if we can have a look at what she’s done?"
"No,” he said heavily, “you know she won’t let us."
"Nearly done?"
"No,"
"Jupiter’s biggest moon is Ganymede, not Callisto,” she said, pointing over Ron’s shoulder at a line in his Astronomy essay, “and it’s Io that’s got the volcanos."
"Thanks,"
"Sorry, I only —"
"Yeah, well, if you’ve just come over here to criticize —"
"Ron —"
"I haven’t got time to listen to a sermon, all right, Hermione, I’m up to my neck in it here —"
"No — look!"
"Isn’t that Hermes?"
"Blimey, it is!” said Ron quietly, throwing down his quill and getting to his feet. “What’s Percy writing to me for?"
"That’s definitely Percy’s handwriting,” said Ron, sinking back into his chair and staring at the words on the outside of the scroll: To Ronald Weasley, Gryffindor House, Hogwarts. He looked up at the other two. “What d’you reckon?"
"Open it!"
"Fred and George"
"Well,” he said, trying to sound as though he found the whole thing a joke, “if you want to — er — what is it?” (He checked Percy’s letter.) “Oh yeah — ‘sever ties’ with me, I swear I won’t get violent."
"Give it back,” said Ron, holding out his hand. “He is —” Ron said jerkily, tearing Percy’s letter in half, “the world’s” — he tore it into quarters — “biggest” — he tore it into eighths — “git."
"Come on, we’ve got to get this finished some time before dawn,"
"Oh, give them here,"
"What?"
"Give them to me, I’ll look through them and correct them,"
"Are you serious? Ah, Hermione, you’re a lifesaver,” said Ron, “what can I — ?"
"What you can say is, ‘We promise we’ll never leave our homework this late again,’"
"Thanks a million, Hermione,"
"Okay, write that down,” Hermione said to Ron, pushing his essay and a sheet covered in her own writing back to Ron, “and then copy out this conclusion that I’ve written for you."
"Hermione, you are honestly the most wonderful person I’ve ever met,” said Ron weakly, “and if I’m ever rude to you again —"
"— I’ll know you’re back to normal,” said Hermione. “Harry, yours is okay except for this bit at the end, I think you must have misheard Professor Sinistra, Europa’s covered in ice, not mice — Harry?"
"Er — Harry?” said Ron uncertainly. “Why are you down there?"
"Because I’ve just seen Sirius’s head in the fire,"
"Sirius’s head?” Hermione repeated. “You mean like when he wanted to talk to you during the Triwizard Tournament? But he wouldn’t do that now, it would be too — Sirius!"
"I was starting to think you’d go to bed before everyone else had disappeared,” he said. “I’ve been checking every hour."
"You’ve been popping into the fire every hour?"
"Just for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear yet."
"But what if you’d been seen?"
"Well, I think a girl — first year by the look of her — might’ve got a glimpse of me earlier, but don’t worry,” Sirius said hastily, as Hermione clapped a hand to her mouth. “I was gone the moment she looked back at me and I’ll bet she just thought I was an oddly shaped log or something."
"But Sirius, this is taking an awful risk —"
"You sound like Molly,” said Sirius. “This was the only way I could come up with of answering Harry’s letter without resorting to a code — and codes are breakable."
"You didn’t say you’d written to Sirius!"
"I forgot,” said Harry, which was perfectly true; his meeting with Cho in the Owlery had driven everything before it out of his mind. “Don’t look at me like that, Hermione, there was no way anyone would have got secret information out of it, was there, Sirius?"
"No, it was very good,” said Sirius, smiling. “Anyway, we’d better be quick, just in case we’re disturbed — your scar."
"What about — ?” Ron began, but Hermione said quickly, “We’ll tell you afterward, go on, Sirius."
"Well, I know it can’t be fun when it hurts, but we don’t think it’s anything to really worry about. It kept aching all last year, didn’t it?"
"Yeah, and Dumbledore said it happened whenever Voldemort was feeling a powerful emotion,” said Harry, ignoring, as usual, Ron and Hermione’s winces. “So maybe he was just, I dunno, really angry or something the night I had that detention."
"Well, now he’s back it’s bound to hurt more often,"
"So you don’t think it had anything to do with Umbridge touching me when I was in detention with her?"
"I doubt it,” said Sirius. “I know her by reputation and I’m sure she’s no Death Eater —"
"She’s foul enough to be one,"
"Yes, but the world isn’t split into good people and Death Eaters,” said Sirius with a wry smile. “I know she’s a nasty piece of work, though — you should hear Remus talk about her."
"Does Lupin know her?"
"No,” said Sirius, “but she drafted a bit of anti-werewolf legislation two years ago that makes it almost impossible for him to get a job."
"What’s she got against werewolves?"
"Scared of them, I expect,” said Sirius, smiling at her indignation. “Apparently she loathes part-humans; she campaigned to have merpeople rounded up and tagged last year too. Imagine wasting your time and energy persecuting merpeople when there are little toerags like Kreacher on the loose —"
"Sirius!” she said reproachfully. “Honestly, if you made a bit of an effort with Kreacher I’m sure he’d respond, after all, you are the only member of his family he’s got left, and Professor Dumbledore said —"
"So what are Umbridge’s lessons like?” Sirius interrupted. “Is she training you all to kill half-breeds?"
"No,” said Harry, ignoring Hermione’s affronted look at being cut off in her defense of Kreacher. “She’s not letting us use magic at all!"
"All we do is read the stupid textbook,"
"Ah, well, that figures,” said Sirius. “Our information from inside the Ministry is that Fudge doesn’t want you trained in combat."
"Trained in combat?” repeated Harry incredulously. “What does he think we’re doing here, forming some sort of wizard army?"
"That’s exactly what he thinks you’re doing,” said Sirius, “or rather, that’s exactly what he’s afraid Dumbledore’s doing — forming his own private army, with which he will be able to take on the Ministry of Magic."
"That’s the stupidest thing I’ve ever heard, including all the stuff that Luna Lovegood comes out with."
"So we’re being prevented from learning Defense Against the Dark Arts because Fudge is scared we’ll use spells against the Ministry?"
"Yep,” said Sirius. “Fudge thinks Dumbledore will stop at nothing to seize power. He’s getting more paranoid about Dumbledore by the day. It’s a matter of time before he has Dumbledore arrested on some trumped-up charge."
"D’you know if there’s going to be anything about Dumbledore in the Daily Prophet tomorrow? Only Ron’s brother Percy reckons there will be —"
"I don’t know,” said Sirius, “I haven’t seen anyone from the Order all weekend, they’re all busy. It’s just been Kreacher and me here . . ."
"So you haven’t had any news about Hagrid, either?"
"Ah . . .” said Sirius, “well, he was supposed to be back by now, no one’s sure what’s happened to him.” Then, seeing their stricken faces, he added quickly, “But Dumbledore’s not worried, so don’t you three get yourselves in a state; I’m sure Hagrid’s fine."
"But if he was supposed to be back by now . . ."
"Madame Maxime was with him, we’ve been in touch with her and she says they got separated on the journey home — but there’s nothing to suggest he’s hurt or — well, nothing to suggest he’s not perfectly okay."
"Listen, don’t go asking too many questions about Hagrid,” said Sirius hastily, “it’ll just draw even more attention to the fact that he’s not back, and I know Dumbledore doesn’t want that. Hagrid’s tough, he’ll be okay.” And when they did not appear cheered by this, Sirius added, “When’s your next Hogsmeade weekend anyway? I was thinking, we got away with the dog disguise at the station, didn’t we? I thought I could —"
"NO!"
"Sirius, didn’t you see the Daily Prophet?"
"Oh that,” said Sirius, grinning, “they’re always guessing where I am, they haven’t really got a clue —"
"Yeah, but we think this time they have,” said Harry. “Something Malfoy said on the train made us think he knew it was you, and his father was on the platform, Sirius — you know, Lucius Malfoy — so don’t come up here, whatever you do, if Malfoy recognizes you again —"
"All right, all right, I’ve got the point,” said Sirius. He looked most displeased. “Just an idea, thought you might like to get together —"
"I would, I just don’t want you chucked back in Azkaban!"
"You’re less like your father than I thought,” he said finally, a definite coolness in his voice. “The risk would’ve been what made it fun for James."
"Look —"
"Well, I’d better get going, I can hear Kreacher coming down the stairs,” said Sirius, but Harry was sure he was lying. “I’ll write to tell you a time I can make it back into the fire, then, shall I? If you can stand to risk it?"
"HIGH INQUISITOR"
"‘High Inquisitor’?” said Harry darkly, his half-eaten bit of toast slipping from his fingers. “What does that mean?"
"‘That’s how Dolores Umbridge came to be appointed to the teaching staff at Hogwarts,’ said Weasley last night. ‘Dumbledore couldn’t find anyone, so the Minister put in Umbridge and of course, she’s been an immediate success —’"
"She’s been a WHAT?"
"Wait, there’s more,"
"‘This is an exciting new phase in the Minister’s plan to get to grips with what some are calling the “falling standards"
"‘Hogwarts is a school, not an outpost of Cornelius Fudge’s office,’ said Madam Marchbanks. ‘This is a further disgusting attempt to discredit Albus Dumbledore.’ (For a full account of Madam Marchbanks’ alleged links to subversive goblin groups, turn to page 17.)"
"So now we know how we ended up with Umbridge! Fudge passed this ‘Educational Decree’ and forced her on us! And now he’s given her the power to inspect other teachers!” Hermione was breathing fast and her eyes were very bright. “I can’t believe this. It’s outrageous . . . "
"I know it is,"
"What?"
"Oh, I can’t wait to see McGonagall inspected,” said Ron happily. “Umbridge won’t know what’s hit her."
"Well, come on,” said Hermione, jumping up, “we’d better get going, if she’s inspecting Binns’s class we don’t want to be late . . ."
"I have awarded you the grades you would have received if you presented this work in your O.W.L.,” said Snape with a smirk, as he swept among them, passing back their homework. “This should give you a realistic idea of what to expect in your examination."
"The general standard of this homework was abysmal. Most of you would have failed had this been your examination. I expect to see a great deal more effort for this week’s essay on the various varieties of venom antidotes, or I shall have to start handing out detentions to those dunces who get D’s."
"Some people got D’s? Ha!"
"Well, that wasn’t as bad as last week, was it?” said Hermione, as they climbed the steps out of the dungeon and made their way across the entrance hall toward lunch. “And the homework didn’t go too badly either, did it?"
"I mean, all right, I didn’t expect the top grade, not if he’s marking to O.W.L. standard, but a pass is quite encouraging at this stage, wouldn’t you say?"
"Of course, a lot can happen between now and the exam, we’ve got plenty of time to improve, but the grades we’re getting now are a sort of baseline, aren’t they? Something we can build on . . ."
"Obviously, I’d have been thrilled if I’d gotten an O —"
"Hermione,” said Ron sharply, “if you want to know what grades we got, ask."
"I don’t — I didn’t mean — well, if you want to tell me —"
"I got a P,” said Ron, ladling soup into his bowl. “Happy?"
"Well, that’s nothing to be ashamed of,” said Fred, who had just arrived at the table with George and Lee Jordan and was sitting down on Harry’s right. “Nothing wrong with a good healthy P."
"But,” said Hermione, “doesn’t P stand for . . ."
"‘Poor,’ yeah,” said Lee Jordan. “Still, better than D, isn’t it? ‘Dreadful’?"
"So top grade’s O for ‘Outstanding,’” she was saying, “and then there’s A —"
"No, E,” George corrected her, “E for ‘Exceeds Expectations.’ And I’ve always thought Fred and I should’ve got E in everything, because we exceeded expectations just by turning up for the exams."
"So after E, it’s A for ‘Acceptable,’ and that’s the last pass grade, isn’t it?"
"Yep,"
"Then you get P for ‘Poor’” — Ron raised both his arms in mock celebration — “and D for ‘Dreadful.’"
"And then T,"
"T?” asked Hermione, looking appalled. “Even lower than a D? What on earth does that stand for?"
"‘Troll,’"
"You lot had an inspected lesson yet?"
"No,” said Hermione at once, “have you?"
"Just now, before lunch,” said George. “Charms."
"What was it like?"
"Not that bad. Umbridge just lurked in the corner making notes on a clipboard. You know what Flitwick’s like, he treated her like a guest, didn’t seem to bother him at all. She didn’t say much. Asked Alicia a couple of questions about what the classes are normally like, Alicia told her they were really good, that was it."
"I can’t see old Flitwick getting marked down,” said George, “he usually gets everyone through their exams all right."
"Who’ve you got this afternoon?"
"Trelawney —"
"A T if ever I saw one —"
"— and Umbridge herself."
"Well, be a good boy and keep your temper with Umbridge today,” said George. “Angelina’ll do her nut if you miss any more Quidditch practices."
"Good afternoon, Professor Trelawney,” said Professor Umbridge with her wide smile. “You received my note, I trust? Giving the time and date of your inspection?"
"We shall be continuing our study of prophetic dreams today,” she said in a brave attempt at her usual mystic tones, though her voice shook slightly. “Divide into pairs, please, and interpret each other’s latest nighttime visions with the aid of the Oracle."
"Think of a dream, quick,” he told Ron, “in case the old toad comes our way."
"I did it last time,” Ron protested, “it’s your turn, you tell me one."
"Oh, I dunno . . .” said Harry desperately, who could not remember dreaming anything at all over the last few days. “Let’s say I dreamed I was . . . drowning Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, that’ll do . . ."
"Okay, we’ve got to add your age to the date you had the dream, the number of letters in the subject . . . would that be ‘drowning’ or ‘cauldron’ or ‘Snape’?"
"It doesn’t matter, pick any of them,"
"What night did you dream this again?"
"I dunno, last night, whenever you like,"
"Now,” said Umbridge, looking up at Trelawney, “you’ve been in this post how long, exactly?"
"Nearly sixteen years."
"Quite a period,” said Professor Umbridge, making a note on her clipboard. “So it was Professor Dumbledore who appointed you?"
"That’s right,"
"And you are a great-great-granddaughter of the celebrated Seer Cassandra Trelawney?"
"Yes,"
"But I think — correct me if I am mistaken — that you are the first in your family since Cassandra to be possessed of second sight?"
"These things often skip — er — three generations,"
"Of course,” she said sweetly, making yet another note. “Well, if you could just predict something for me, then?"
"I don’t understand you,"
"I’d like you to make a prediction for me,"
"The Inner Eye does not See upon command!"
"I see,"
"I — but — but . . . wait!” said Professor Trelawney suddenly, in an attempt at her usual ethereal voice, though the mystical effect was ruined somewhat by the way it was shaking with anger. “I . . . I think I do see something . . . something that concerns you. . . . Why, I sense something . . . something dark . . . some grave peril . . ."
"I am afraid . . . I am afraid that you are in grave danger!"
"Right,” she said softly, scribbling on her clipboard once more. “Well, if that’s really the best you can do . . ."
"Well?” she said, snapping her long fingers under Harry’s nose, uncharacteristically brisk. “Let me see the start you’ve made on your dream diary, please."
"Wands away,” she instructed them all smilingly, and those people who had been hopeful enough to take them out sadly returned them to their bags. “As we finished chapter one last lesson, I would like you all to turn to page nineteen today and commence chapter two, ‘Common Defensive Theories and Their Derivation.’ There will be no need to talk."
"What is it this time, Miss Granger?"
"I’ve already read chapter two,"
"Well then, proceed to chapter three."
"I’ve read that too. I’ve read the whole book."
"Well, then, you should be able to tell me what Slinkhard says about counterjinxes in chapter fifteen."
"He says that counterjinxes are improperly named,” said Hermione promptly. “He says ‘counterjinx’ is just a name people give their jinxes when they want to make them sound more acceptable."
"But I disagree,"
"You disagree?"
"Yes, I do,” said Hermione, who, unlike Umbridge, was not whispering, but speaking in a clear, carrying voice that had by now attracted the rest of the class’s attention. “Mr. Slinkhard doesn’t like jinxes, does he? But I think they can be very useful when they’re used defensively."
"Oh, you do, do you?” said Professor Umbridge, forgetting to whisper and straightening up. “Well, I’m afraid it is Mr. Slinkhard’s opinion, and not yours, that matters within this classroom, Miss Granger."
"But —"
"That is enough,” said Professor Umbridge. She walked back to the front of the class and stood before them, all the jauntiness she had shown at the beginning of the lesson gone. “Miss Granger, I am going to take five points from Gryffindor House."
"What for?"
"Don’t you get involved!"
"For disrupting my class with pointless interruptions,” said Professor Umbridge smoothly. “I am here to teach you using a Ministry-approved method that does not include inviting students to give their opinions on matters about which they understand very little. Your previous teachers in this subject may have allowed you more license, but as none of them — with the possible exception of Professor Quirrell, who did at least appear to have restricted himself to age-appropriate subjects — would have passed a Ministry inspection —"
"Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher,” said Harry loudly, “there was just that minor drawback of him having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the back of his head."
"I think another week’s detentions would do you some good, Mr. Potter,"
"Miss Johnson, how dare you make such a racket in the Great Hall! Five points from Gryffindor!"
"But Professor — he’s gone and landed himself in detention again —"
"What’s this, Potter?” said Professor McGonagall sharply, rounding on Harry. “Detention? From whom?"
"From Professor Umbridge,"
"Are you telling me,” she said, lowering her voice so that the group of curious Ravenclaws behind them could not hear, “that after the warning I gave you last Monday you lost your temper in Professor Umbridge’s class again?"
"Yes,"
"Potter, you must get a grip on yourself! You are heading for serious trouble! Another five points from Gryffindor!"
"But — what? Professor, no!” Harry said, furious at this injustice. “I’m already being punished by her, why do you have to take points as well?"
"Because detentions do not appear to have any effect on you whatsoever!” said Professor McGonagall tartly. “No, not another word of complaint, Potter! And as for you, Miss Johnson, you will confine your shouting matches to the Quidditch pitch in future or risk losing the team Captaincy!"
"She’s taken points off Gryffindor because I’m having my hand sliced open every night! How is that fair, how?"
"I know, mate,” said Ron sympathetically, tipping bacon onto Harry’s plate, “she’s bang out of order."
"You think McGonagall was right, do you?"
"I wish she hadn’t taken points from you, but I think she’s right to warn you not to lose your temper with Umbridge,"
"Excellent,” whispered Ron, as they sat down in their usual seats. “Let’s see Umbridge get what she deserves."
"That will do,” she said and silence fell immediately. “Mr. Finnigan, kindly come here and hand back the homework — Miss Brown, please take this box of mice — don’t be silly, girl, they won’t hurt you — and hand one to each student —"
"Hem, hem,"
"Right then, everyone, listen closely — Dean Thomas, if you do that to the mouse again I shall put you in detention — most of you have now successfully vanished your snails and even those who were left with a certain amount of shell have the gist of the spell. Today we shall be —"
"Hem, hem,"
"Yes?"
"I was just wondering, Professor, whether you received my note telling you of the date and time of your inspec —"
"Obviously I received it, or I would have asked you what you are doing in my classroom,” said Professor McGonagall, turning her back firmly on Professor Umbridge. Many of the students exchanged looks of glee. “As I was saying, today we shall be practicing the altogether more difficult vanishment of mice. Now, the Vanishing Spell —"
"Hem, hem."
"I wonder,” said Professor McGonagall in cold fury, turning on Professor Umbridge, “how you expect to gain an idea of my usual teaching methods if you continue to interrupt me? You see, I do not generally permit people to talk when I am talking."
"As I was saying, the Vanishing Spell becomes more difficult with the complexity of the animal to be vanished. The snail, as an invertebrate, does not present much of a challenge; the mouse, as a mammal, offers a much greater one. This is not, therefore, magic you can accomplish with your mind on your dinner. So — you know the incantation, let me see what you can do . . ."
"How she can lecture me about not losing my temper with Umbridge!"
"Well, it’s a start,"
"How long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?"
"Thirty-nine years this December,"
"Very well,” she said, “you will receive the results of your inspection in ten days’ time."
"I can hardly wait,” said Professor McGonagall in a coldly indifferent voice, and she strode off toward the door. “Hurry up, you three,"
"You do not usually take this class, is that correct?"
"Quite correct,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, hands behind her back and bouncing on the balls of her feet. “I am a substitute teacher standing in for Professor Hagrid."
"Hmm,” said Professor Umbridge, dropping her voice, though Harry could still hear her quite clearly, “I wonder — the headmaster seems strangely reluctant to give me any information on the matter — can you tell me what is causing Professor Hagrid’s very extended leave of absence?"
"’Fraid I can’t,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank breezily. “Don’t know anything more about it than you do. Got an owl from Dumbledore, would I like a couple of weeks teaching work, accepted — that’s as much as I know. Well . . . shall I get started then?"
"Yes, please do,"
"Overall,” said Professor Umbridge, returning to Professor Grubbly-Plank’s side after a lengthy interrogation of Dean Thomas, “how do you, as a temporary member of staff — an objective outsider, I suppose you might say — how do you find Hogwarts? Do you feel you receive enough support from the school management?"
"Oh, yes, Dumbledore’s excellent,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank heartily. “No, I’m very happy with the way things are run, very happy indeed."
"And what are you planning to cover with this class this year — assuming, of course, that Professor Hagrid does not return?"
"Oh, I’ll take them through the creatures that most often come up in O.W.L.,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank. “Not much left to do — they’ve studied unicorns and nifflers, I thought we’d cover porlocks and kneazles, make sure they can recognize crups and knarls, you know . . ."
"Well, you seem to know what you’re doing, at any rate,” said Professor Umbridge, making a very obvious tick on her clipboard. Harry did not like the emphasis she put on “you” and liked it even less when she put her next question to Goyle: “Now, I hear there have been injuries in this class?"
"That was me,” he said. “I was slashed by a hippogriff."
"A hippogriff?"
"Only because he was too stupid to listen to what Hagrid told him to do,"
"Another night’s detention, I think,” she said softly. “Well, thank you very much, Professor Grubbly-Plank, I think that’s all I need here. You will be receiving the results of your inspection within ten days."
"Jolly good,"
"Here,” she said anxiously, pushing a small bowl of yellow liquid toward him, “soak your hand in that, it’s a solution of strained and pickled murtlap tentacles, it should help."
"Thanks,"
"I still reckon you should complain about this,"
"No,"
"McGonagall would go nuts if she knew —"
"Yeah, she probably would,” said Harry. “And how long d’you reckon it’d take Umbridge to pass another Decree saying anyone who complains about the High Inquisitor gets sacked immediately?"
"She’s an awful woman,” said Hermione in a small voice. “Awful. You know, I was just saying to Ron when you came in . . . we’ve got to do something about her."
"I suggested poison,"
"No . . . I mean, something about what a dreadful teacher she is, and how we’re not going to learn any defense from her at all,"
"Well, what can we do about that?” said Ron, yawning. “’S too late, isn’t it? She got the job, she’s here to stay, Fudge’ll make sure of that."
"Well,” said Hermione tentatively. “You know, I was thinking today . . .” She shot a slightly nervous look at Harry and then plunged on, “I was thinking that — maybe the time’s come when we should just — just do it ourselves."
"Do what ourselves?"
"Well — learn Defense Against the Dark Arts ourselves,"
"Come off it,” groaned Ron. “You want us to do extra work? D’you realize Harry and I are behind on homework again and it’s only the second week?"
"But this is much more important than homework!"
"I didn’t think there was anything in the universe more important than homework,"
"Don’t be silly, of course there is!” said Hermione, and Harry saw, with an ominous feeling, that her face was suddenly alight with the kind of fervor that S.P.E.W. usually inspired in her. “It’s about preparing ourselves, like Harry said in Umbridge’s first lesson, for what’s waiting out there. It’s about making sure we really can defend ourselves. If we don’t learn anything for a whole year —"
"We can’t do much by ourselves,” said Ron in a defeated voice. “I mean, all right, we can go and look jinxes up in the library and try and practice them, I suppose —"
"No, I agree, we’ve gone past the stage where we can just learn things out of books,” said Hermione. “We need a teacher, a proper one, who can show us how to use the spells and correct us if we’re going wrong."
"If you’re talking about Lupin . . ."
"No, no, I’m not talking about Lupin,” said Hermione. “He’s too busy with the Order and anyway, the most we could see him is during Hogsmeade weekends and that’s not nearly often enough."
"Who, then?"
"Isn’t it obvious?” she said. “I’m talking about you, Harry."
"About me what?"
"I’m talking about you teaching us Defense Against the Dark Arts."
"That’s an idea."
"What’s an idea?"
"You,” said Ron. “Teaching us to do it."
"But . . ."
"But I’m not a teacher, I can’t —"
"Harry, you’re the best in the year at Defense Against the Dark Arts,"
"Me?” said Harry, now grinning more broadly than ever. “No I’m not, you’ve beaten me in every test —"
"Actually, I haven’t,” said Hermione coolly. “You beat me in our third year — the only year we both sat the test and had a teacher who actually knew the subject. But I’m not talking about test results, Harry. Look what you’ve done!"
"How d’you mean?"
"You know what, I’m not sure I want someone this stupid teaching me,” Ron said to Hermione, smirking slightly. He turned to Harry. “Let’s think,” he said, pulling a face like Goyle concentrating. “Uh . . . first year — you saved the Stone from You-Know-Who."
"But that was luck,” said Harry, “that wasn’t skill —"
"Second year,” Ron interrupted, “you killed the basilisk and destroyed Riddle."
"Yeah, but if Fawkes hadn’t turned up I —"
"Third year,” said Ron, louder still, “you fought off about a hundred dementors at once —"
"You know that was a fluke, if the Time-Turner hadn’t —"
"Last year,” Ron said, almost shouting now, “you fought off You-Know-Who again —"
"Listen to me!” said Harry, almost angrily, because Ron and Hermione were both smirking now. “Just listen to me, all right? It sounds great when you say it like that, but all that stuff was luck — I didn’t know what I was doing half the time, I didn’t plan any of it, I just did whatever I could think of, and I nearly always had help —"
"Don’t sit there grinning like you know better than I do, I was there, wasn’t I?” he said heatedly. “I know what went on, all right? And I didn’t get through any of that because I was brilliant at Defense Against the Dark Arts, I got through it all because — because help came at the right time, or because I guessed right — but I just blundered through it all, I didn’t have a clue what I was doing — STOP LAUGHING!"
"You don’t know what it’s like! You — neither of you — you’ve never had to face him, have you? You think it’s just memorizing a bunch of spells and throwing them at him, like you’re in class or something? The whole time you know there’s nothing between you and dying except your own — your own brain or guts or whatever — like you can think straight when you know you’re about a second from being murdered, or tortured, or watching your friends die — they’ve never taught us that in their classes, what it’s like to deal with things like that — and you two sit there acting like I’m a clever little boy to be standing here, alive, like Diggory was stupid, like he messed up — you just don’t get it, that could just as easily have been me, it would have been if Voldemort hadn’t needed me —"
"We weren’t saying anything like that, mate,” said Ron, looking aghast. “We weren’t having a go at Diggory, we didn’t — you’ve got the wrong end of the —"
"Harry,” she said timidly, “don’t you see? This . . . this is exactly why we need you. . . . We need to know what it’s r-really like . . . facing him . . . facing V-Voldemort."
"Well . . . think about it,” said Hermione quietly. “Please?"
"Well, I’m off to bed,” she said in a voice that was clearly as natural as she could make it. “Erm . . . ’night."
"Coming?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “In . . . in a minute. I’ll just clear this up."
"Reparo,"
"I was wondering,” Hermione said suddenly, “whether you’d thought any more about Defense Against the Dark Arts, Harry."
"’Course I have,” said Harry grumpily. “Can’t forget it, can we, with that hag teaching us —"
"I meant the idea Ron and I had” — Ron cast her an alarmed, threatening kind of look; she frowned at him — “oh, all right, the idea I had, then — about you teaching us."
"Well,” he said slowly, when he could not pretend to find Asiatic anti-venoms interesting much longer, “yeah, I — I’ve thought about it a bit."
"And?"
"I dunno,"
"I thought it was a good idea from the start,"
"You did listen to what I said about a load of it being luck, didn’t you?"
"Yes, Harry,” said Hermione gently, “but all the same, there’s no point pretending that you’re not good at Defense Against the Dark Arts, because you are. You were the only person last year who could throw off the Imperius Curse completely, you can produce a Patronus, you can do all sorts of stuff that full-grown wizards can’t, Viktor always said —"
"Yeah? What did Vicky say?"
"Ho ho,” said Hermione in a bored voice. “He said Harry knew how to do stuff even he didn’t, and he was in the final year at Durmstrang."
"You’re not still in contact with him, are you?"
"So what if I am?” said Hermione coolly, though her face was a little pink. “I can have a pen pal if I —"
"He didn’t only want to be your pen pal,"
"Well, what do you think? Will you teach us?"
"Just you and Ron, yeah?"
"Well,” said Hermione, now looking a mite anxious again. “Well . . . now, don’t fly off the handle again, Harry, please. . . . But I really think you ought to teach anyone who wants to learn. I mean, we’re talking about defending ourselves against V-Voldemort — oh, don’t be pathetic, Ron — it doesn’t seem fair if we don’t offer the chance to other people."
"Yeah, but I doubt anyone except you two would want to be taught by me. I’m a nutter, remember?"
"Well, I think you might be surprised how many people would be interested in hearing what you’ve got to say,” said Hermione seriously. “Look,” she leaned toward him; Ron, who was still watching her with a frown on his face, leaned forward to listen too, “you know the first weekend in October’s a Hogsmeade weekend? How would it be if we tell anyone who’s interested to meet us in the village and we can talk it over?"
"Why do we have to do it outside school?"
"Because,” said Hermione, returning to the diagram of the Chinese Chomping Cabbage she was copying, “I don’t think Umbridge would be very happy if she found out what we were up to."
"Well, you can’t blame him for wanting to get out and about,” said Ron, when Harry discussed his fears with him and Hermione. “I mean, he’s been on the run for over two years, hasn’t he, and I know that can’t have been a laugh, but at least he was free, wasn’t he? And now he’s just shut up all the time with that lunatic elf."
"The trouble is,” she said to Harry, “until V-Voldemort — oh for heaven’s sake, Ron — comes out into the open, Sirius is going to have to stay hidden, isn’t he? I mean, the stupid Ministry isn’t going to realize Sirius is innocent until they accept that Dumbledore’s been telling the truth about him all along. And once the fools start catching real Death Eaters again it’ll be obvious Sirius isn’t one . . . I mean, he hasn’t got the Mark, for one thing."
"I don’t reckon he’d be stupid enough to turn up,” said Ron bracingly. “Dumbledore’d go mad if he did and Sirius listens to Dumbledore even if he doesn’t like what he hears."
"Listen, Ron and I have been sounding out people who we thought might want to learn some proper Defense Against the Dark Arts, and there are a couple who seem interested. We’ve told them to meet us in Hogsmeade."
"Right,"
"Don’t worry, Harry,” Hermione said quietly. “You’ve got enough on your plate without Sirius too."
"Er — why was Filch sniffing you?"
"I suppose he was checking for the smell of Dungbombs,” said Harry with a small laugh. “I forgot to tell you . . ."
"He said he was tipped off you were ordering Dungbombs? But who had tipped him off?"
"I dunno,” said Harry, shrugging. “Maybe Malfoy, he’d think it was a laugh."
"Malfoy?” said Hermione, very skeptically. “Well . . . yes . . . maybe . . ."
"Where are we going anyway?” Harry asked. “The Three Broomsticks?"
"Oh — no,” said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, “no, it’s always packed and really noisy. I’ve told the others to meet us in the Hog’s Head, that other pub, you know the one, it’s not on the main road. I think it’s a bit . . . you know . . . dodgy . . . but students don’t normally go in there, so I don’t think we’ll be overheard."
"Well, come on,"
"Yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in the Hog’s Head,"
"I don’t know about this, Hermione,” Harry muttered, as they crossed to the bar. He was looking particularly at the heavily veiled witch. “Has it occurred to you Umbridge might be under that?"
"Umbridge is shorter than that woman,” she said quietly. “And anyway, even if Umbridge does come in here there’s nothing she can do to stop us, Harry, because I’ve double- and triple-checked the school rules. We’re not out-of-bounds; I specifically asked Professor Flitwick whether students were allowed to come in the Hog’s Head, and he said yes, but he advised me strongly to bring our own glasses. And I’ve looked up everything I can think of about study groups and homework groups and they’re definitely allowed. I just don’t think it’s a good idea if we parade what we’re doing."
"No,” said Harry dryly, “especially as it’s not exactly a homework group you’re planning, is it?"
"What?"
"Three butterbeers, please,"
"Six Sickles,"
"I’ll get them,"
"You know what?” Ron murmured, looking over at the bar with enthusiasm. “We could order anything we liked in here, I bet that bloke would sell us anything, he wouldn’t care. I’ve always wanted to try firewhisky —"
"You — are — a — prefect,"
"Oh,” said Ron, the smile fading from his face. “Yeah . . ."
"So who did you say is supposed to be meeting us?"
"Just a couple of people,” Hermione repeated, checking her watch and then looking anxiously toward the door. “I told them to be here about now and I’m sure they all know where it is — oh look, this might be them now —"
"A couple of people?” said Harry hoarsely to Hermione. “A couple of people?"
"Yes, well, the idea seemed quite popular,” said Hermione happily. “Ron, do you want to pull up some more chairs?"
"Hi,” said Fred, reaching the bar first and counting his companions quickly. “Could we have . . . twenty-five butterbeers, please?"
"Cheers,” said Fred, handing them out. “Cough up, everyone, I haven’t got enough gold for all of these . . ."
"What have you been telling people?” he said in a low voice. “What are they expecting?"
"I’ve told you, they just want to hear what you’ve got to say,” said Hermione soothingly; but Harry continued to look at her so furiously that she added quickly, “You don’t have to do anything yet, I’ll speak to them first."
"Hi, Harry,"
"Er,” said Hermione, her voice slightly higher than usual out of nerves. “Well — er — hi."
"Well . . . erm . . . well, you know why you’re here. Erm . . . well, Harry here had the idea — I mean” — Harry had thrown her a sharp look — “I had the idea — that it might be good if people who wanted to study Defense Against the Dark Arts — and I mean, really study it, you know, not the rubbish that Umbridge is doing with us” — (Hermione’s voice became suddenly much stronger and more confident) — “because nobody could call that Defense Against the Dark Arts” — “Hear, hear,” said Anthony Goldstein, and Hermione looked heartened — “well, I thought it would be good if we, well, took matters into our own hands."
"And by that I mean learning how to defend ourselves properly, not just theory but the real spells —"
"You want to pass your Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L. too though, I bet?"
"Of course I do,” said Hermione at once. “But I want more than that, I want to be properly trained in Defense because . . . because . . .” She took a great breath and finished, “Because Lord Voldemort’s back."
"Well . . . that’s the plan anyway,” said Hermione. “If you want to join us, we need to decide how we’re going to —"
"Where’s the proof You-Know-Who’s back?"
"Well, Dumbledore believes it —"
"You mean, Dumbledore believes him,"
"Who are you?"
"Zacharias Smith,” said the boy, “and I think we’ve got the right to know exactly what makes him say You-Know-Who’s back."
"Look,” said Hermione, intervening swiftly, “that’s really not what this meeting was supposed to be about —"
"It’s okay, Hermione,"
"What makes me say You-Know-Who’s back?” he asked, looking Zacharias straight in the face. “I saw him. But Dumbledore told the whole school what happened last year, and if you didn’t believe him, you don’t believe me, and I’m not wasting an afternoon trying to convince anyone."
"All Dumbledore told us last year was that Cedric Diggory got killed by You-Know-Who and that you brought Diggory’s body back to Hogwarts. He didn’t give us details, he didn’t tell us exactly how Diggory got murdered, I think we’d all like to know —"
"If you’ve come to hear exactly what it looks like when Voldemort murders someone I can’t help you,” Harry said. His temper, always so close to the surface these days, was rising again. He did not take his eyes from Zacharias Smith’s aggressive face, determined not to look at Cho. “I don’t want to talk about Cedric Diggory, all right? So if that’s what you’re here for, you might as well clear out."
"So,” said Hermione, her voice very high-pitched again. “So . . . like I was saying . . . if you want to learn some defense, then we need to work out how we’re going to do it, how often we’re going to meet, and where we’re going to —"
"Is it true,” interrupted the girl with the long plait down her back, looking at Harry, “that you can produce a Patronus?"
"Yeah,"
"A corporeal Patronus?"
"Er — you don’t know Madam Bones, do you?"
"She’s my auntie,” she said. “I’m Susan Bones. She told me about your hearing. So — is it really true? You make a stag Patronus?"
"Yes,"
"Blimey, Harry!” said Lee, looking deeply impressed. “I never knew that!"
"Mum told Ron not to spread it around,” said Fred, grinning at Harry. “She said you got enough attention as it was."
"She’s not wrong,"
"And did you kill a basilisk with that sword in Dumbledore’s office?” demanded Terry Boot. “That’s what one of the portraits on the wall told me when I was in there last year . . ."
"Er — yeah, I did, yeah,"
"wow"
"And in our first year,” said Neville to the group at large, “he saved that Sorcerous Stone —"
"Sorcerer’s,"
"Yes, that, from You-Know-Who,"
"And that’s not to mention,” said Cho (Harry’s eyes snapped onto her, she was looking at him, smiling; his stomach did another somersault), “all the tasks he had to get through in the Triwizard Tournament last year — getting past dragons and merpeople and acromantulas and things . . ."
"Look,” he said and everyone fell silent at once, “I . . . I don’t want to sound like I’m trying to be modest or anything, but . . . I had a lot of help with all that stuff . . ."
"Not with the dragon, you didn’t,” said Michael Corner at once. “That was a seriously cool bit of flying . . ."
"Yeah, well —"
"And nobody helped you get rid of those dementors this summer,"
"No,” said Harry, “no, okay, I know I did bits of it without help, but the point I’m trying to make is —"
"Are you trying to weasel out of showing us any of this stuff?"
"Here’s an idea,” said Ron loudly, before Harry could speak, “why don’t you shut your mouth?"
"weasel"
"Well, we’ve all turned up to learn from him, and now he’s telling us he can’t really do any of it,"
"That’s not what he said,"
"Would you like us to clean out your ears for you?"
"Or any part of your body, really, we’re not fussy where we stick this,"
"Yes, well,” said Hermione hastily, “moving on . . . the point is, are we agreed we want to take lessons from Harry?"
"Right,” said Hermione, looking relieved that something had at last been settled. “Well, then, the next question is how often we do it. I really don’t think there’s any point in meeting less than once a week —"
"Hang on,” said Angelina, “we need to make sure this doesn’t clash with our Quidditch practice."
"No,” said Cho, “nor with ours."
"Nor ours,"
"I’m sure we can find a night that suits everyone,” said Hermione, slightly impatiently, “but you know, this is rather important, we’re talking about learning to defend ourselves against V-Voldemort’s Death Eaters —"
"Well said!” barked Ernie Macmillan, whom Harry had been expecting to speak long before this. “Personally I think this is really important, possibly more important than anything else we’ll do this year, even with our O.W.L.s coming up!"
"Surely not!” When nobody spoke, he went on, “I, personally, am at a loss to see why the Ministry has foisted such a useless teacher upon us at this critical period. Obviously they are in denial about the return of You-Know-Who, but to give us a teacher who is trying to actively prevent us from using defensive spells —"
"We think the reason Umbridge doesn’t want us trained in Defense Against the Dark Arts,” said Hermione, “is that she’s got some . . . some mad idea that Dumbledore could use the students in the school as a kind of private army. She thinks he’d mobilize us against the Ministry."
"Well, that makes sense. After all, Cornelius Fudge has got his own private army."
"What?"
"Yes, he’s got an army of heliopaths,"
"No, he hasn’t,"
"Yes, he has,"
"What are heliopaths?"
"They’re spirits of fire,” said Luna, her protuberant eyes widening so that she looked madder than ever. “Great tall flaming creatures that gallop across the ground burning everything in front of —"
"They don’t exist, Neville,"
"Oh yes they do!"
"I’m sorry, but where’s the proof of that?"
"There are plenty of eyewitness accounts, just because you’re so narrow-minded you need to have everything shoved under your nose before you —"
"Hem, hem,” said Ginny in such a good imitation of Professor Umbridge that several people looked around in alarm and then laughed. “Weren’t we trying to decide how often we’re going to meet and get Defense lessons?"
"Yes,” said Hermione at once, “yes, we were, you’re right . . ."
"Well, once a week sounds cool,"
"As long as —"
"Yes, yes, we know about the Quidditch,” said Hermione in a tense voice. “Well, the other thing to decide is where we’re going to meet . . ."
"Library?"
"I can’t see Madam Pince being too chuffed with us doing jinxes in the library,"
"Maybe an unused classroom?"
"Yeah,” said Ron, “McGonagall might let us have hers, she did when Harry was practicing for the Triwizard . . ."
"Right, well, we’ll try to find somewhere,” said Hermione. “We’ll send a message round to everybody when we’ve got a time and a place for the first meeting."
"I-I think everybody should write their name down, just so we know who was here. But I also think,” she took a deep breath, “that we all ought to agree not to shout about what we’re doing. So if you sign, you’re agreeing not to tell Umbridge — or anybody else — what we’re up to."
"Er . . .” said Zacharias slowly, not taking the parchment that George was trying to pass him. “Well . . . I’m sure Ernie will tell me when the meeting is."
"I — well, we are prefects,” Ernie burst out. “And if this list was found . . . well, I mean to say . . . you said yourself, if Umbridge finds out . . ."
"You just said this group was the most important thing you’d do this year,"
"I — yes,” said Ernie, “yes, I do believe that, it’s just . . ."
"Ernie, do you really think I’d leave that list lying around?"
"No. No, of course not,” said Ernie, looking slightly less anxious. “I — yes, of course I’ll sign."
"Well, time’s ticking on,” said Fred briskly, getting to his feet. “George, Lee, and I have got items of a sensitive nature to purchase, we’ll be seeing you all later."
"Well, I think that went quite well,"
"That Zacharias bloke’s a wart,"
"I don’t like him much either,” admitted Hermione, “but he overheard me talking to Ernie and Hannah at the Hufflepuff table and he seemed really interested in coming, so what could I say? But the more people the better really — I mean, Michael Corner and his friends wouldn’t have come if he hadn’t been going out with Ginny —"
"He’s WHAT?” said Ron, outraged, his ears now resembling curls of raw beef. “She’s going out with — my sister’s going — what d’you mean, Michael Corner?"
"Well, that’s why he and his friends came, I think — well, they’re obviously interested in learning Defense, but if Ginny hadn’t told Michael what was going on —"
"When did this — when did she — ?"
"They met at the Yule Ball and they got together at the end of last year,” said Hermione composedly. They had turned into the High Street and she paused outside Scrivenshaft’s Quill Shop, where there was a handsome display of pheasant-feather quills in the window. “Hmm . . . I could do with a new quill."
"Which one was Michael Corner?"
"The dark one,"
"I didn’t like him,"
"Big surprise,"
"But,” said Ron, following Hermione along a row of quills in copper pots, “I thought Ginny fancied Harry!"
"Ginny used to fancy Harry, but she gave up on him months ago. Not that she doesn’t like you, of course,"
"So that’s why she talks now?” he asked Hermione. “She never used to talk in front of me."
"Exactly,” said Hermione. “Yes, I think I’ll have this one . . ."
"Ron,” she said severely as she turned and trod on his feet, “this is exactly why Ginny hasn’t told you she’s seeing Michael, she knew you’d take it badly. So don’t harp on about it, for heaven’s sake."
"What d’you mean, who’s taking anything badly? I’m not going to harp on about anything . . ."
"And talking about Michael and Ginny . . . what about Cho and you?"
"What d’you mean?"
"Well,” said Hermione, smiling slightly, “she just couldn’t keep her eyes off you, could she?"
"Does this mean they’re going to shut down the Gobstones Club?"
"I reckon you’ll be okay with Gobstones,” Ron said darkly, making the second year jump. “I don’t think we’re going to be as lucky, though, do you?"
"This isn’t a coincidence,” he said, his hands forming fists. “She knows."
"She can’t,"
"There were people listening in that pub. And let’s face it, we don’t know how many of the people who turned up we can trust. . . . Any of them could have run off and told Umbridge . . ."
"Zacharias Smith!” said Ron at once, punching a fist into his hand. “Or — I thought that Michael Corner had a really shifty look too —"
"I wonder if Hermione’s seen this yet?"
"Let’s go and tell her,"
"Er — I don’t think we’re allowed in the girls’ dormitories,"
"Oooh, who tried to get upstairs?"
"Me,” said Ron, who was still rather disheveled. “I didn’t realize that would happen. It’s not fair!” he added to Harry, as the girls headed off for the portrait hole, still giggling madly. “Hermione’s allowed in our dormitory, how come we’re not allowed — ?"
"Well, it’s an old-fashioned rule,” said Hermione, who had just slid neatly onto a rug in front of them and was now getting to her feet, “but it says in Hogwarts: A History that the founders thought boys were less trustworthy than girls. Anyway, why were you trying to get in there?"
"To see you — look at this!"
"Someone must have blabbed to her!"
"They can’t have done,"
"You’re so naive,” said Ron, “you think just because you’re all honorable and trustworthy —"
"No, they can’t have done because I put a jinx on that piece of parchment we all signed,” said Hermione grimly. “Believe me, if anyone’s run off and told Umbridge, we’ll know exactly who they are and they will really regret it."
"What’ll happen to them?"
"Well, put it this way,” said Hermione, “it’ll make Eloise Midgen’s acne look like a couple of cute freckles. Come on, let’s get down to breakfast and see what the others think. . . . I wonder whether this has been put up in all the Houses?"
"Did you see it?"
"D’you reckon she knows?"
"What are we going to do?"
"We’re going to do it anyway, of course,"
"Knew you’d say that,"
"The prefects as well?"
"Of course,"
"Here comes Ernie and Hannah Abbott,” said Ron, looking over his shoulder. “And those Ravenclaw blokes and Smith . . . and no one looks very spotty."
"Never mind spots, the idiots can’t come over here now, it’ll look really suspicious — sit down!” she mouthed to Ernie and Hannah, gesturing frantically to them to rejoin the Hufflepuff table. “Later! We’ll — talk — to — you — later!"
"I’ll tell Michael,” said Ginny impatiently, swinging herself off her bench. “The fool, honestly . . ."
"Harry! Ron!"
"It’s okay,” said Harry quietly, when she was near enough to hear him. “We’re still going to —"
"You realize she’s including Quidditch in this?” Angelina said over him. “We have to go and ask permission to re-form the Gryffindor team!"
"What?"
"No way,"
"You read the sign, it mentions teams too! So listen, Harry . . . I am saying this for the last time. . . . Please, please don’t lose your temper with Umbridge again or she might not let us play anymore!"
"Okay, okay,” said Harry, for Angelina looked as though she was on the verge of tears. “Don’t worry, I’ll behave myself . . ."
"Bet Umbridge is in History of Magic,” said Ron grimly, as they set off for Binns’s lesson. “She hasn’t inspected Binns yet. . . . Bet you anything she’s there . . ."
"What?"
"Oh, I’ve always loved that owl, she’s so beautiful,"
"She’s hurt!” Harry whispered, bending his head low over her. Hermione and Ron leaned in closer; Hermione even put down her quill. “Look — there’s something wrong with her wing —"
"Professor Binns,” said Harry loudly, and everyone in the class turned to look at him. “I’m not feeling well."
"Not feeling well?"
"Not at all well,” said Harry firmly, getting to his feet while concealing Hedwig behind his back. “So I think I’ll need to go to the hospital wing."
"Yes,” said Professor Binns, clearly very much wrong-footed. “Yes . . . yes, hospital wing . . . well, off you go, then, Perkins . . ."
"You should be in class, sunny Jim."
"This is urgent,"
"Ooooh, urgent, is it?” said the other gargoyle in a high-pitched voice. “Well, that’s put us in our place, hasn’t it?"
"You haven’t been given another detention!"
"No, Professor!"
"Well then, why are you out of class?"
"It’s urgent, apparently,"
"I’m looking for Professor Grubbly-Plank,” Harry explained. “It’s my owl, she’s injured."
"Injured owl, did you say?"
"Yes,” said Harry, lifting Hedwig carefully off his shoulder, “she turned up after the other post owls and her wing’s all funny, look —"
"Hmm,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, her pipe waggling slightly as she talked. “Looks like something’s attacked her. Can’t think what would have done it, though. . . . Thestrals will sometimes go for birds, of course, but Hagrid’s got the Hogwarts thestrals well trained not to touch owls . . ."
"Do you know how far this owl’s traveled, Potter?"
"Er,” said Harry. “From London, I think."
"London” to mean “number twelve, Grimmauld Place"
"I should be able to sort this out if you leave her with me, Potter,” she said. “She shouldn’t be flying long distances for a few days, in any case."
"Er — right — thanks,"
"No problem,"
"Just a moment, Wilhelmina!” said Professor McGonagall. “Potter’s letter!"
"Oh yeah!"
"Potter!"
"Yes, Professor?"
"Bear in mind,” she said quickly and quietly, her eyes on the scroll in his hand, “that channels of communication in and out of Hogwarts may be being watched, won’t you?"
"I —"
"Is Hedwig okay?"
"Where did you take her?"
"To Grubbly-Plank,” said Harry. “And I met McGonagall . . . Listen . . ."
"What?"
"Well, I was just saying to Ron . . . what if someone had tried to intercept Hedwig? I mean, she’s never been hurt on a flight before, has she?"
"Who’s the letter from anyway?"
"Snuffles,"
"‘Same time, same place’? Does he mean the fire in the common room?"
"Obviously,” said Hermione, also reading the note. She looked uneasy. “I just hope nobody else has read this . . ."
"But it was still sealed and everything,” said Harry, trying to convince himself as much as her. “And nobody would understand what it meant if they didn’t know where we’d spoken to him before, would they?"
"I don’t know,” said Hermione anxiously, hitching her bag back over her shoulder as the bell rang again. “It wouldn’t be exactly difficult to reseal the scroll by magic. . . . And if anyone’s watching the Floo Network . . . but I don’t really see how we can warn him not to come without that being intercepted too!"
"Yeah, Umbridge gave the Slytherin Quidditch team permission to continue playing straightaway, I went to ask her first thing this morning. Well, it was pretty much automatic, I mean, she knows my father really well, he’s always popping in and out of the Ministry. . . . It’ll be interesting to see whether Gryffindor are allowed to keep playing, won’t it?"
"Don’t rise,” Hermione whispered imploringly to Harry and Ron, who were both watching Malfoy, faces set and fists clenched. “It’s what he wants . . ."
"I mean,” said Malfoy, raising his voice a little more, his gray eyes glittering malevolently in Harry and Ron’s direction, “if it’s a question of influence with the Ministry, I don’t think they’ve got much chance. . . . From what my father says, they’ve been looking for an excuse to sack Arthur Weasley for years. . . . And as for Potter . . . My father says it’s a matter of time before the Ministry has him carted off to St. Mungo’s. . . . apparently they’ve got a special ward for people whose brains have been addled by magic . . ."
"Neville, no!"
"Help me!"
"Not . . . funny . . . don’t . . . Mungo’s . . . show . . . him . . ."
"Fighting, Potter, Weasley, Longbottom?” Snape said in his cold, sneering voice. “Ten points from Gryffindor. Release Longbottom, Potter, or it will be detention. Inside, all of you."
"I had to stop you,” Harry gasped, picking up his bag. “Crabbe and Goyle would’ve torn you apart."
"What in the name of Merlin,” said Ron slowly, as they followed Neville, “was that about?"
"You will notice,” said Snape in his low, sneering voice, “that we have a guest with us today."
"We are continuing with our Strengthening Solutions today, you will find your mixtures as you left them last lesson, if correctly made they should have matured well over the weekend — instructions” — he waved his wand again — “on the board. Carry on."
"Salamander blood, Harry!” Hermione moaned, grabbing his wrist to prevent him adding the wrong ingredient for the third time. “Not pomegranate juice!"
"Right,” said Harry vaguely, putting down the bottle and continuing to watch the corner. Umbridge had just gotten to her feet. “Ha,"
"Well, the class seems fairly advanced for their level,” she said briskly to Snape’s back. “Though I would question whether it is advisable to teach them a potion like the Strengthening Solution. I think the Ministry would prefer it if that was removed from the syllabus."
"Now . . . how long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?"
"Fourteen years,"
"You applied first for the Defense Against the Dark Arts post, I believe?"
"Yes,"
"But you were unsuccessful?"
"Obviously."
"And you have applied regularly for the Defense Against the Dark Arts post since you first joined the school, I believe?"
"Yes,"
"Do you have any idea why Dumbledore has consistently refused to appoint you?"
"I suggest you ask him,"
"Oh I shall,"
"I suppose this is relevant?"
"Oh yes,” said Professor Umbridge. “Yes, the Ministry wants a thorough understanding of teachers’ — er — backgrounds . . ."
"No marks again, then, Potter,” said Snape maliciously, emptying Harry’s cauldron with a wave of his wand. “You will write me an essay on the correct composition of this potion, indicating how and why you went wrong, to be handed in next lesson, do you understand?"
"Yes,"
"Maybe I’ll skive off Divination,” he said glumly as they stood again in the courtyard after lunch, the wind whipping at the hems of robes and brims of hats. “I’ll pretend to be ill and do Snape’s essay instead, then I won’t have to stay up half the night . . ."
"You can’t skive off Divination,"
"Hark who’s talking, you walked out of Divination, you hate Trelawney!"
"I don’t hate her,” said Hermione loftily. “I just think she’s an absolutely appalling teacher and a real old fraud. . . . But Harry’s already missed History of Magic and I don’t think he ought to miss anything else today!"
"Well, carry on!” said Professor Trelawney loudly, her voice high pitched and somewhat hysterical. “You know what to do! Or am I such a substandard teacher that you have never learned how to open a book?"
"I think she’s got the results of her inspection back."
"Professor?” said Parvati Patil in a hushed voice (she and Lavender had always rather admired Professor Trelawney). “Professor, is there anything — er — wrong?"
"Wrong!” cried Professor Trelawney in a voice throbbing with emotion. “Certainly not! I have been insulted, certainly. . . . Insinuations have been made against me. . . . Unfounded accusations levelled . . . but no, there is nothing wrong, certainly not . . ."
"I say nothing,” she choked, “of sixteen years’ devoted service. . . . It has passed, apparently, unnoticed. . . . But I shall not be insulted, no, I shall not!"
"But Professor, who’s insulting you?"
"The establishment!” said Professor Trelawney in a deep, dramatic, wavering voice. “Yes, those with eyes too clouded by the Mundane to See as I See, to Know as I Know . . . Of course, we Seers have always been feared, always persecuted. . . . It is — alas — our fate . . ."
"Professor,” said Parvati, “do you mean . . . is it something Professor Umbridge . . . ?"
"Do not speak to me about that woman!” cried Professor Trelawney, leaping to her feet, her beads rattling and her spectacles flashing. “Kindly continue with your work!"
" . . . may well choose to leave . . . the indignity of it . . . on probation . . . we shall see . . . how she dares . . ."
"You and Umbridge have got something in common,” Harry told Hermione quietly when they met again in Defense Against the Dark Arts. “She obviously reckons Trelawney’s an old fraud too. . . . Looks like she’s put her on probation."
"Good afternoon, class."
"Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,"
"Wands away, please . . ."
"Please turn to page thirty-four of Defensive Magical Theory and read the third chapter, entitled ‘The Case for Non-Offensive Responses to Magical Attack.’ There will be —"
"— no need to talk,"
"No Quidditch practice,"
"But I kept my temper!” said Harry, horrified. “I didn’t say anything to her, Angelina, I swear, I —"
"I know, I know,” said Angelina miserably. “She just said she needed a bit of time to consider."
"Consider what?” said Ron angrily. “She’s given the Slytherins permission, why not us?"
"Well,” said Hermione, “look on the bright side — at least now you’ll have time to do Snape’s essay!"
"That’s a bright side, is it?” snapped Harry, while Ron stared incredulously at Hermione. “No Quidditch practice and extra Potions?"
"Just go and stop them, then!"
"I can’t, they’re not technically doing anything wrong,” said Hermione through gritted teeth. “They’re quite within their rights to eat the foul things themselves, and I can’t find a rule that says the other idiots aren’t entitled to buy them, not unless they’re proven to be dangerous in some way, and it doesn’t look as though they are . . ."
"You know, I don’t get why Fred and George only got three O.W.L.s each,” said Harry, watching as Fred, George, and Lee collected gold from the eager crowd. “They really know their stuff . . ."
"Oh, they only know flashy stuff that’s no real use to anyone,"
"No real use?” said Ron in a strained voice. “Hermione, they’ve got about twenty-six Galleons already . . ."
"Sirius!"
"Hi,"
"Hi,"
"How’re things?"
"Not that good,” said Harry, as Hermione pulled Crookshanks back to stop him singeing his whiskers. “The Ministry’s forced through another decree, which means we’re not allowed to have Quidditch teams —"
"— or secret Defense Against the Dark Arts groups?"
"How did you know about that?"
"You want to choose your meeting places more carefully,” said Sirius, grinning still more broadly. “The Hog’s Head, I ask you . . ."
"Well, it was better than the Three Broomsticks!” said Hermione defensively. “That’s always packed with people —"
"— which means you’d have been harder to overhear,” said Sirius. “You’ve got a lot to learn, Hermione."
"Who overheard us?"
"Mundungus, of course,” said Sirius, and when they all looked puzzled he laughed. “He was the witch under the veil."
"That was Mundungus?” Harry said, stunned. “What was he doing in the Hog’s Head?"
"What do you think he was doing?” said Sirius impatiently. “Keeping an eye on you, of course."
"I’m still being followed?"
"Yeah, you are,” said Sirius, “and just as well, isn’t it, if the first thing you’re going to do on your weekend off is organize an illegal defense group."
"Why was Dung hiding from us?” asked Ron, sounding disappointed. “We’d’ve liked to’ve seen him."
"He was banned from the Hog’s Head twenty years ago,” said Sirius, “and that barman’s got a long memory. We lost Moody’s spare Invisibility Cloak when Sturgis was arrested, so Dung’s been dressing as a witch a lot lately. . . . Anyway . . . First of all, Ron — I’ve sworn to pass on a message from your mother."
"Oh yeah?"
"She says on no account whatsoever are you to take part in an illegal secret Defense Against the Dark Arts group. She says you’ll be expelled for sure and your future will be ruined. She says there will be plenty of time to learn how to defend yourself later and that you are too young to be worrying about that right now. She also” — Sirius’s eyes turned to the other two — “advises Harry and Hermione not to proceed with the group, though she accepts that she has no authority over either of them and simply begs them to remember that she has their best interests at heart. She would have written all this to you, but if the owl had been intercepted you’d all have been in real trouble, and she can’t say it for herself because she’s on duty tonight."
"On duty doing what?"
"Never you mind, just stuff for the Order,” said Sirius. “So it’s fallen to me to be the messenger and make sure you tell her I passed it all on, because I don’t think she trusts me to."
"So you want me to say I’m not going to take part in the defense group?"
"Me? Certainly not!” said Sirius, looking surprised. “I think it’s an excellent idea!"
"You do?"
"Of course I do!” said Sirius. “D’you think your father and I would’ve lain down and taken orders from an old hag like Umbridge?"
"But — last term all you did was tell me to be careful and not take risks —"
"Last year all the evidence was that someone inside Hogwarts was trying to kill you, Harry!” said Sirius impatiently. “This year we know that there’s someone outside Hogwarts who’d like to kill us all, so I think learning to defend yourselves properly is a very good idea!"
"And if we do get expelled?"
"Hermione, this whole thing was your idea!"
"I know it was. . . . I just wondered what Sirius thought,"
"Well, better expelled and able to defend yourselves than sitting safely in school without a clue,"
"Hear, hear,"
"So,” said Sirius, “how are you organizing this group? Where are you meeting?"
"Well, that’s a bit of a problem now,” said Harry. “Dunno where we’re going to be able to go . . ."
"How about the Shrieking Shack?"
"Hey, that’s an idea!"
"Well, Sirius, it’s just that there were only four of you meeting in the Shrieking Shack when you were at school,” said Hermione, “and all of you could transform into animals and I suppose you could all have squeezed under a single Invisibility Cloak if you’d wanted to. But there are twenty-eight of us and none of us is an Animagus, so we wouldn’t need so much an Invisibility Cloak as an Invisibility Marquee —"
"Fair point,” said Sirius, looking slightly crestfallen. “Well, I’m sure you’ll come up with somewhere. . . . There used to be a pretty roomy secret passageway behind that big mirror on the fourth floor, you might have enough space to practice jinxes in there —"
"Fred and George told me it’s blocked,” said Harry, shaking his head. “Caved in or something."
"Oh . . .” said Sirius, frowning. “Well, I’ll have a think and get back to —"
"Sirius?"
"Why did he — ?"
"You think Umbridge attacked Hedwig?"
"I’m almost certain of it,” said Hermione grimly. “Watch your frog, it’s escaping."
"Accio!"
"I’ve been suspecting this ever since Filch accused you of ordering Dungbombs, because it seemed such a stupid lie,” Hermione whispered. “I mean, once your letter had been read, it would have been quite clear you weren’t ordering them, so you wouldn’t have been in trouble at all — it’s a bit of a feeble joke, isn’t it? But then I thought, what if somebody just wanted an excuse to read your mail? Well then, it would be a perfect way for Umbridge to manage it — tip off Filch, let him do the dirty work and confiscate the letter, then either find a way of stealing it from him or else demand to see it — I don’t think Filch would object, when’s he ever stuck up for a student’s rights? Harry, you’re squashing your frog."
"It was a very, very close call last night,” said Hermione. “I just wonder if Umbridge knows how close it was. Silencio!"
"If she’d caught Snuffles . . ."
"He’d probably be back in Azkaban this morning."
"Silencio!” said Hermione hastily, pointing her wand at Harry’s frog, which deflated silently before them. “Well, he mustn’t do it again, that’s all. I just don’t know how we’re going to let him know. We can’t send him an owl."
"I don’t reckon he’ll risk it again,” said Ron. “He’s not stupid, he knows she nearly got him. Silencio!"
"Silencio! SILENCIO!"
"It’s the way you’re moving your wand,” said Hermione, watching Ron critically. “You don’t want to wave it, it’s more a sharp jab."
"Ravens are harder than frogs,"
"Fine, let’s swap,” said Hermione, seizing Ron’s raven and replacing it with her own fat bullfrog. “Silencio!"
"Very good, Miss Granger!” said Professor Flitwick’s squeaky little voice and Harry, Ron, and Hermione all jumped. “Now, let me see you try, Mr. Weasley!"
"Wha — ? Oh — oh, right,” said Ron, very flustered. “Er — Silencio!"
"I’ve got permission!” she said. “To re-form the Quidditch team!"
"Excellent!"
"Yeah,” said Angelina, beaming. “I went to McGonagall and I think she might have appealed to Dumbledore — anyway, Umbridge had to give in. Ha! So I want you down at the pitch at seven o’clock tonight, all right, because we’ve got to make up time, you realize we’re only three weeks away from our first match?"
"Hope this clears up . . . What’s up with you, Hermione?"
"Just thinking . . ."
"About Siri . . . Snuffles?"
"No . . . not exactly . . .” said Hermione slowly. “More . . . wondering . . . I suppose we’re doing the right thing . . . I think . . . aren’t we?"
"Well, that clears that up,” said Ron. “It would’ve been really annoying if you hadn’t explained yourself properly."
"I was just wondering,” she said, her voice stronger now, “whether we’re doing the right thing, starting this Defense Against the Dark Arts group."
"What!"
"Hermione, it was your idea in the first place!"
"I know,” said Hermione, twisting her fingers together. “But after talking to Snuffles . . ."
"But he’s all for it!"
"Yes,” said Hermione, staring at the window again. “Yes, that’s what made me think maybe it wasn’t a good idea after all . . ."
"Let’s get this straight,” said Harry angrily, as they put their bags back on the floor, “Sirius agrees with us, so you don’t think we should do it anymore?"
"Do you honestly trust his judgment?"
"Yes, I do!” said Harry at once. “He’s always given us great advice!"
"You don’t think he has become . . . sort of . . . reckless . . . since he’s been cooped up in Grimmauld Place? You don’t think he’s . . . kind of . . . living through us?"
"What d’you mean, ‘living through us’?"
"I mean . . . well, I think he’d love to be forming secret defense societies right under the nose of someone from the Ministry. . . . I think he’s really frustrated at how little he can do where he is . . . so I think he’s keen to kind of . . . egg us on."
"Sirius is right,” he said, “you do sound just like my mother."
"— but I bet she’d know what we’d done,” Fred said out of the corner of his mouth. “If only I hadn’t offered to sell her some Puking Pastilles yesterday —"
"We could try the Fever Fudge,” George muttered, “no one’s seen that yet —"
"Does it work?"
"Well, yeah,” said Fred, “your temperature’ll go right up —"
"— but you get these massive pus-filled boils too,” said George, “and we haven’t worked out how to get rid of them yet."
"I can’t see any boils,"
"No, well, you wouldn’t,” said Fred darkly, “they’re not in a place we generally display to the public —"
"— but they make sitting on a broom a right pain in the —"
"All right, everyone, listen up,” said Angelina loudly, emerging from the Captain’s office. “I know it’s not ideal weather, but there’s a good chance we’ll be playing Slytherin in conditions like this so it’s a good idea to work out how we’re going to cope with them. Harry, didn’t you do something to your glasses to stop the rain fogging them up when we played Hufflepuff in that storm?"
"Hermione did it,” said Harry. He pulled out his wand, tapped his glasses and said, “Impervius!"
"I think we all ought to try that,” said Angelina. “If we could just keep the rain off our faces it would really help visibility — all together, come on — Impervius! Okay. Let’s go."
"All right, on my whistle,"
"I think a few of mine have ruptured,"
"Mine haven’t,” said George, wincing. “They’re throbbing like mad . . . feel bigger if anything . . ."
"OUCH!"
"What’s up?"
"Nothing,” he muttered, “I — poked myself in the eye, that’s all . . ."
"What happened?” said Ron, the moment that Alicia had disappeared through the door. “Was it your scar?"
"But . . .” Looking scared, Ron strode across to the window and stared out into the rain, “He — he can’t be near us now, can he?"
"No,” Harry muttered, sinking onto a bench and rubbing his forehead. “He’s probably miles away. It hurt because . . . he’s . . . angry."
"Did you see him?” said Ron, looking horrified. “Did you . . . get a vision, or something?"
"He wants something done, and it’s not happening fast enough,"
"But . . . how do you know?"
"Is this what it was about last time?” said Ron in a hushed voice. “When your scar hurt in Umbridge’s office? You-Know-Who was angry?"
"What is it, then?"
"Last time, it was because he was pleased,” he said. “Really pleased. He thought . . . something good was going to happen. And the night before we came back to Hogwarts . . .” He thought back to the moment when his scar had hurt so badly in his and Ron’s bedroom in Grimmauld Place. “He was furious . . ."
"You could take over from Trelawney, mate,"
"I’m not making prophecies,"
"No, you know what you’re doing?” Ron said, sounding both scared and impressed. “Harry, you’re reading You-Know-Who’s mind. . . ."
"No,” said Harry, shaking his head. “It’s more like . . . his mood, I suppose. I’m just getting flashes of what mood he’s in. . . . Dumbledore said something like this was happening last year. . . . He said that when Voldemort was near me, or when he was feeling hatred, I could tell. Well, now I’m feeling it when he’s pleased too . . ."
"You’ve got to tell someone,"
"I told Sirius last time."
"Well, tell him about this time!"
"Can’t, can I?” said Harry grimly. “Umbridge is watching the owls and the fires, remember?"
"Well then, Dumbledore —"
"I’ve just told you, he already knows,” said Harry shortly, getting to his feet, taking his cloak off his peg, and swinging it around himself. “There’s no point telling him again."
"Dumbledore’d want to know,"
"C’mon . . . we’ve still got Silencing Charms to practice . . ."
"He’s got other plans . . . plans he can put into operation very quietly indeed . . . stuff he can only get by stealth . . . like a weapon. Something he didn’t have last time."
"Mimbulus mimbletonia,"
"Harry Potter, sir!"
"Whozair?"
"Dobby has your owl, sir!"
"Dobby?"
"Dobby volunteered to return Harry Potter’s owl!” said the elf squeakily, with a look of positive adoration on his face. “Professor Grubbly-Plank says she is all well now, sir!"
"Thanks, Dobby!"
"Er . . . have you been taking all the clothes Hermione’s been leaving out?"
"Oh no, sir,” said Dobby happily, “Dobby has been taking some for Winky too, sir."
"Yeah, how is Winky?"
"Winky is still drinking lots, sir,” he said sadly, his enormous round green eyes, large as tennis balls, downcast. “She still does not care for clothes, Harry Potter. Nor do the other house-elves. None of them will clean Gryffindor Tower anymore, not with the hats and socks hidden everywhere, they finds them insulting, sir. Dobby does it all himself, sir, but Dobby does not mind, sir, for he always hopes to meet Harry Potter and tonight, sir, he has got his wish!” Dobby sank into a deep bow again. “But Harry Potter does not seem happy,” Dobby went on, straightening up again and looking timidly at Harry. “Dobby heard him muttering in his sleep. Was Harry Potter having bad dreams?"
"Not really bad,” said Harry, yawning and rubbing his eyes. “I’ve had worse."
"Dobby wishes he could help Harry Potter, for Harry Potter set Dobby free and Dobby is much, much happier now . . ."
"You can’t help me, Dobby, but thanks for the offer . . ."
"Wait a moment — there is something you can do for me, Dobby,"
"Name it, Harry Potter, sir!"
"I need to find a place where twenty-eight people can practice Defense Against the Dark Arts without being discovered by any of the teachers. Especially,” Harry clenched his hand on the book, so that the scars shone pearly white, “Professor Umbridge."
"Dobby knows the perfect place, sir!” he said happily. “Dobby heard tell of it from the other house-elves when he came to Hogwarts, sir. It is known by us as the Come and Go Room, sir, or else as the Room of Requirement!"
"Why?"
"Because it is a room that a person can only enter,” said Dobby seriously, “when they have real need of it. Sometimes it is there, and sometimes it is not, but when it appears, it is always equipped for the seeker’s needs. Dobby has used it, sir,” said the elf, dropping his voice and looking guilty, “when Winky has been very drunk. He has hidden her in the Room of Requirement and he has found antidotes to butterbeer there, and a nice elf-sized bed to settle her on while she sleeps it off, sir. . . . And Dobby knows Mr. Filch has found extra cleaning materials there when he has run short, sir, and —"
"— and if you really needed a bathroom,” said Harry, suddenly remembering something Dumbledore had said at the Yule Ball the previous Christmas, “would it fill itself with chamber pots?"
"Dobby expects so, sir,” said Dobby, nodding earnestly. “It is a most amazing room, sir."
"How many people know about it?"
"Very few, sir. Mostly people stumbles across it when they needs it, sir, but often they never finds it again, for they do not know that it is always there waiting to be called into service, sir."
"It sounds brilliant,” said Harry, his heart racing. “It sounds perfect, Dobby. When can you show me where it is?"
"Anytime, Harry Potter, sir,” said Dobby, looking delighted at Harry’s enthusiasm. “We could go now, if you like!"
"Not tonight, Dobby,” said Harry reluctantly, sinking back into his chair. “This is really important. . . . I don’t want to blow it, it’ll need proper planning. . . . Listen, can you just tell me exactly where this Room of Requirement is and how to get in there?"
"Good,” said Harry quietly, when she told him, “because we’ve found somewhere to have our first Defense meeting. Tonight, eight o’clock, seventh floor opposite that tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy being clubbed by those trolls. Can you tell Katie and Alicia?"
"What?"
"Well . . . it’s just that Dobby’s plans aren’t always that safe. Don’t you remember when he lost you all the bones in your arm?"
"This room isn’t just some mad idea of Dobby’s; Dumbledore knows about it too, he mentioned it to me at the Yule Ball."
"Dumbledore told you about it?"
"Just in passing,"
"Oh well, that’s all right then,"
"Hold it,” said Harry warningly, unfolding the piece of parchment at the top of the last staircase, tapping it with his wand, and muttering, “I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."
"Filch is on the second floor,” said Harry, holding the map close to his eyes and scanning it closely, “and Mrs. Norris is on the fourth."
"And Umbridge?"
"In her office,” said Harry, pointing. “Okay, let’s go."
"Okay,” said Harry quietly, while a moth-eaten troll paused in his relentless clubbing of the would-be ballet teacher to watch. “Dobby said to walk past this bit of wall three times, concentrating hard on what we need."
"Harry,"
"These will be good when we’re practicing Stunning,"
"And just look at these books!” said Hermione excitedly, running a finger along the spines of the large leather-bound tomes. “A Compendium of Common Curses and Their Counter-Actions . . . The Dark Arts Outsmarted . . . Self-Defensive Spellwork . . . wow . . .” She looked around at Harry, her face glowing, and he saw that the presence of hundreds of books had finally convinced Hermione that what they were doing was right. “Harry, this is wonderful, there’s everything we need here!"
"Whoa,” said Dean, staring around, impressed. “What is this place?"
"Well,” said Harry, slightly nervously. “This is the place we’ve found for practices, and you’ve — er — obviously found it okay —"
"It’s fantastic!"
"It’s bizarre,” said Fred, frowning around at it. “We once hid from Filch in here, remember, George? But it was just a broom cupboard then . . ."
"Hey, Harry, what’s this stuff?"
"Dark Detectors,” said Harry, stepping between the cushions to reach them. “Basically they all show when Dark wizards or enemies are around, but you don’t want to rely on them too much, they can be fooled . . ."
"Well, I’ve been thinking about the sort of stuff we ought to do first and — er —” He noticed a raised hand. “What, Hermione?"
"I think we ought to elect a leader,"
"Harry’s leader,"
"Yes, but I think we ought to vote on it properly,” said Hermione, unperturbed. “It makes it formal and it gives him authority. So — everyone who thinks Harry ought to be our leader?"
"Er — right, thanks,” said Harry, who could feel his face burning. “And — what, Hermione?"
"I also think we ought to have a name,” she said brightly, her hand still in the air. “It would promote a feeling of team spirit and unity, don’t you think?"
"Can we be the Anti-Umbridge League?"
"Or the Ministry of Magic Are Morons Group?"
"I was thinking,” said Hermione, frowning at Fred, “more of a name that didn’t tell everyone what we were up to, so we can refer to it safely outside meetings."
"The Defense Association?” said Cho. “The D.A. for short, so nobody knows what we’re talking about?"
"Yeah, the D.A.’s good,” said Ginny. “Only let’s make it stand for Dumbledore’s Army because that’s the Ministry’s worst fear, isn’t it?"
"All in favor of the D.A.?” said Hermione bossily, kneeling up on her cushion to count. “That’s a majority — motion passed!"
"Right,” said Harry, when she had sat down again, “shall we get practicing then? I was thinking, the first thing we should do is Expelliarmus, you know, the Disarming Charm. I know it’s pretty basic but I’ve found it really useful —"
"Oh please,” said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eyes and folding his arms. “I don’t think Expelliarmus is exactly going to help us against You-Know-Who, do you?"
"I’ve used it against him,” said Harry quietly. “It saved my life last June."
"But if you think it’s beneath you, you can leave,"
"Okay,” said Harry, his mouth slightly drier than usual with all those eyes upon him, “I reckon we should all divide into pairs and practice."
"You can practice with me,” Harry told him. “Right — on the count of three, then — one, two, three —"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"I DID IT!” said Neville gleefully. “I’ve never done it before — I DID IT!"
"Good one!” said Harry encouragingly, deciding not to point out that in a real duel situation Neville’s opponent was unlikely to be staring in the opposite direction with his wand held loosely at his side. “Listen, Neville, can you take it in turns to practice with Ron and Hermione for a couple of minutes so I can walk around and see how the rest are doing?"
"Sorry, Harry,” said George hastily, when Harry caught his eye. “Couldn’t resist . . ."
"Okay, stop!” Harry shouted. “Stop! STOP!"
"That wasn’t bad,” said Harry, “but there’s definite room for improvement.” Zacharias Smith glared at him. “Let’s try again . . ."
"Oh no,” said Cho rather wildly as he approached. “Expelliarmious! I mean, Expellimellius! I — oh, sorry, Marietta!"
"You made me nervous, I was doing all right before then!"
"That was quite good,” Harry lied, but when she raised her eyebrows he said, “Well, no, it was lousy, but I know you can do it properly, I was watching from over there . . ."
"Don’t mind her,” Cho muttered. “She doesn’t really want to be here but I made her come with me. Her parents have forbidden her to do anything that might upset Umbridge, you see — her mum works for the Ministry."
"What about your parents?"
"Well, they’ve forbidden me to get on the wrong side of Umbridge too,” said Cho, drawing herself up proudly. “But if they think I’m not going to fight You-Know-Who after what happened to Cedric —"
"Well, my father is very supportive of any anti-Ministry action!” said Luna Lovegood proudly from just behind Harry; evidently she had been eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin Finch-Fletchley attempted to disentangle himself from the robes that had flown up over his head. “He’s always saying he’d believe anything of Fudge, I mean, the number of goblins Fudge has had assassinated! And of course he uses the Department of Mysteries to develop terrible poisons, which he feeds secretly to anybody who disagrees with him. And then there’s his Umgubular Slashkilter —"
"Don’t ask,"
"Hey, Harry,” Hermione called from the other end of the room, “have you checked the time?"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Well, that was pretty good,” said Harry, “but we’ve overrun, we’d better leave it here. Same time, same place next week?"
"Sooner!"
"The Quidditch season’s about to start, we need team practices too!"
"Let’s say next Wednesday night, then,” said Harry, “and we can decide on additional meetings then. . . . Come on, we’d better get going . . ."
"That was really, really good, Harry,"
"Yeah, it was!” said Ron enthusiastically, as they slipped out of the door and watched it melt back into stone behind them. “Did you see me disarm Hermione, Harry?"
"Only once,” said Hermione, stung. “I got you loads more than you got me —"
"I did not only get you once, I got you at least three times —"
"Well, if you’re counting the one where you tripped over your own feet and knocked the wand out of my hand —"
"You see the numerals around the edge of the coins?” Hermione said, holding one up for examination at the end of their fourth meeting. The coin gleamed fat and yellow in the light from the torches. “On real Galleons that’s just a serial number referring to the goblin who cast the coin. On these fake coins, though, the numbers will change to reflect the time and date of the next meeting. The coins will grow hot when the date changes, so if you’re carrying them in a pocket you’ll be able to feel them. We take one each, and when Harry sets the date of the next meeting he’ll change the numbers on his coin, and because I’ve put a Protean Charm on them, they’ll all change to mimic his."
"Well — I thought it was a good idea,” she said uncertainly, “I mean, even if Umbridge asked us to turn out our pockets, there’s nothing fishy about carrying a Galleon, is there? But . . . well, if you don’t want to use them . . ."
"You can do a Protean Charm?"
"Yes,"
"But that’s . . . that’s N.E.W.T. standard, that is,"
"Oh,” said Hermione, trying to look modest. “Oh . . . well . . . yes, I suppose it is . . ."
"How come you’re not in Ravenclaw?” he demanded, staring at Hermione with something close to wonder. “With brains like yours?"
"Well, the Sorting Hat did seriously consider putting me in Ravenclaw during my Sorting,” said Hermione brightly, “but it decided on Gryffindor in the end. So does that mean we’re using the Galleons?"
"You know what these remind me of?"
"No, what’s that?"
"The Death Eaters’ scars. Voldemort touches one of them, and all their scars burn, and they know they’ve got to join him."
"Well . . . yes,” said Hermione quietly. “That is where I got the idea . . . but you’ll notice I decided to engrave the date on bits of metal rather than on our members’ skin . . ."
"Yeah . . . I prefer your way,” said Harry, grinning, as he slipped his Galleon into his pocket. “I suppose the only danger with these is that we might accidentally spend them."
"Fat chance,” said Ron, who was examining his own fake Galleon with a slightly mournful air. “I haven’t got any real Galleons to confuse it with."
"I think you’ve got enough to be getting on with at the moment,” she said loftily. Nobody could quite believe their ears until she looked directly at Harry and Ron and said grimly, “I’ve become accustomed to seeing the Quidditch Cup in my study, boys, and I really don’t want to have to hand it over to Professor Snape, so use the extra time to practice, won’t you?"
"Hey, Potty, I heard Warrington’s sworn to knock you off your broom on Saturday,” far from chilling his blood, made him laugh. “Warrington’s aim’s so pathetic I’d be more worried if he was aiming for the person next to me,"
"Got your bed booked in the hospital wing, Weasley?"
"You all right?"
"You just need some breakfast,” Harry said bracingly. “C’mon."
"I must’ve been mental to do this,” he said in a croaky whisper. “Mental."
"Don’t be thick,” said Harry firmly, passing him a choice of cereals. “You’re going to be fine. It’s normal to be nervous."
"I’m rubbish,” croaked Ron. “I’m lousy. I can’t play to save my life. What was I thinking?"
"Get a grip,” said Harry sternly. “Look at that save you made with your foot the other day, even Fred and George said it was brilliant —"
"That was an accident,” he whispered miserably. “I didn’t mean to do it — I slipped off my broom when none of you were looking and I was trying to get back on and I kicked the Quaffle by accident."
"Well,” said Harry, recovering quickly from this unpleasant surprise, “a few more accidents like that and the game’s in the bag, isn’t it?"
"How’re you feeling?"
"He’s just nervous,"
"Well, that’s a good sign, I never feel you perform as well in exams if you’re not a bit nervous,"
"Hello,"
"I’m supporting Gryffindor,” said Luna, pointing unnecessarily at her hat. “Look what it does . . ."
"It’s good, isn’t it?” said Luna happily. “I wanted to have it chewing up a serpent to represent Slytherin, you know, but there wasn’t time. Anyway . . . good luck, Ronald!"
"When you’re ready,” she said, “we’re going to go straight down to the pitch, check out conditions and change."
"We’ll be there in a bit,” Harry assured her. “Ron’s just got to have some breakfast."
"Don’t let Ron see what’s on those Slytherins’ badges,"
"Good luck, Ron,” said Hermione, standing on tiptoe and kissing him on the cheek. “And you, Harry —"
"Okay, I’ve only just found out the final lineup for Slytherin,” said Angelina, consulting a piece of parchment. “Last year’s Beaters, Derrick and Bole, have left now, but it looks as though Montague’s replaced them with the usual gorillas, rather than anyone who can fly particularly well. They’re two blokes called Crabbe and Goyle, I don’t know much about them —"
"We do,"
"Well, they don’t look bright enough to tell one end of a broom from another,” said Angelina, pocketing her parchment, “but then I was always surprised Derrick and Bole managed to find their way onto the pitch without signposts."
"Crabbe and Goyle are in the same mold,"
"It’s time,” said Angelina in a hushed voice, looking at her watch. “C’mon everyone . . . good luck."
"Captains shake hands,” ordered the umpire, Madam Hooch, as Angelina and Montague reached each other. Harry could tell that Montague was trying to crush Angelina’s fingers, though she did not wince. “Mount your brooms . . ."
"And it’s Johnson, Johnson with the Quaffle, what a player that girl is, I’ve been saying it for years but she still won’t go out with me —"
"JORDAN!"
"Just a fun fact, Professor, adds a bit of interest — and she’s ducked Warrington, she’s passed Montague, she’s — ouch — been hit from behind by a Bludger from Crabbe. . . . Montague catches the Quaffle, Montague heading back up the pitch and — nice Bludger there from George Weasley, that’s a Bludger to the head for Montague, he drops the Quaffle, caught by Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffindor reverse passes to Alicia Spinnet and Spinnet’s away —"
"— dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger — close call, Alicia — and the crowd are loving this, just listen to them, what’s that they’re singing?"
"— and Alicia passes back to Angelina!” Lee shouted, and as Harry swerved, his insides boiling at what he had just heard, he knew Lee was trying to drown out the sound of the singing. “Come on now, Angelina — looks like she’s got just the Keeper to beat! — SHE SHOOTS — SHE — aaaah . . ."
"— and it’s Warrington with the Quaffle, Warrington heading for goal, he’s out of Bludger range with just the Keeper ahead —"
"— so it’s the first test for new Gryffindor Keeper, Weasley, brother of Beaters, Fred and George, and a promising new talent on the team — come on, Ron!"
"Slytherin score!” came Lee’s voice amid the cheering and booing from the crowds below. “So that’s ten-nil to Slytherin — bad luck, Ron . . ."
"— and Gryffindor back in possession and it’s Katie Bell tanking up the pitch —"
"Harry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?” screamed Angelina, soaring past him to keep up with Katie. “GET GOING!"
"— and it’s Warrington again,” bellowed Lee, “who passes to Pucey, Pucey’s off past Spinnet, come on now Angelina, you can take him — turns out you can’t — but nice Bludger from Fred Weasley, I mean, George Weasley, oh who cares, one of them anyway, and Warrington drops the Quaffle and Katie Bell — er — drops it too — so that’s Montague with the Quaffle, Slytherin Captain Montague takes the Quaffle, and he’s off up the pitch, come on now Gryffindor, block him!"
"— and Pucey’s dodged Alicia again, and he’s heading straight for goal, stop it, Ron!"
"— and Katie Bell of Gryffindor dodges Pucey, ducks Montague, nice swerve, Katie, and she throws to Johnson, Angelina Johnson takes the Quaffle, she’s past Warrington, she’s heading for goal, come on now Angelina — GRYFFINDOR SCORE! It’s forty–ten, forty–ten to Slytherin and Pucey has the Quaffle . . ."
"— Pucey throws to Warrington, Warrington to Montague, Montague back to Pucey — Johnson intervenes, Johnson takes the Quaffle, Johnson to Bell, this looks good — I mean bad — Bell’s hit by a Bludger from Goyle of Slytherin and it’s Pucey in possession again . . ."
"Are you all right?"
"’Course I am,"
"It was that thug, Crabbe,” said Angelina angrily. “He whacked the Bludger at you the moment he saw you’d got the Snitch — but we won, Harry, we won!"
"Saved Weasley’s neck, haven’t you?” he said to Harry. “I’ve never seen a worse Keeper . . . but then he was born in a bin. . . . Did you like my lyrics, Potter?"
"We wanted to write another couple of verses!” Malfoy called, as Katie and Alicia hugged Harry. “But we couldn’t find rhymes for fat and ugly — we wanted to sing about his mother, see —"
"Talk about sour grapes,"
"— we couldn’t fit in useless loser either — for his father, you know —"
"Leave it,” said Angelina at once, taking Fred by the arm. “Leave it, Fred, let him yell, he’s just sore he lost, the jumped-up little —"
"— but you like the Weasleys, don’t you, Potter?” said Malfoy, sneering. “Spend holidays there and everything, don’t you? Can’t see how you stand the stink, but I suppose when you’ve been dragged up by Muggles even the Weasleys’ hovel smells okay —"
"Or perhaps,” said Malfoy, leering as he backed away, “you can remember what your mother’s house stank like, Potter, and Weasley’s pigsty reminds you of it —"
"Harry! HARRY! GEORGE! NO!"
"IMPEDIMENTA!"
"What do you think you’re doing?” screamed Madam Hooch, as Harry leapt to his feet again; it was she who had hit him with the Impediment Jinx. She was holding her whistle in one hand and a wand in the other, her broom lay abandoned several feet away. Malfoy was curled up on the ground, whimpering and moaning, his nose bloody; George was sporting a swollen lip; Fred was still being forcibly restrained by the three Chasers, and Crabbe was cackling in the background. “I’ve never seen behavior like it — back up to the castle, both of you, and straight to your Head of House’s office! Go! Now!"
"In!"
"Well?” she said. “I have never seen such a disgraceful exhibition. Two onto one! Explain yourselves!"
"Malfoy provoked us,"
"Provoked you?” shouted Professor McGonagall, slamming a fist onto her desk so that her tartan biscuit tin slid sideways off it and burst open, littering the floor with Ginger Newts. “He’d just lost, hadn’t he, of course he wanted to provoke you! But what on earth he can have said that justified what you two —"
"He insulted my parents,” snarled George. “And Harry’s mother."
"But instead of leaving it to Madam Hooch to sort out, you two decided to give an exhibition of Muggle dueling, did you?” bellowed Professor McGonagall. “Have you any idea what you’ve — ?"
"Hem, hem."
"May I help, Professor McGonagall?"
"Help?” she repeated in a constricted voice. “What do you mean, ‘help’?"
"Why, I thought you might be grateful for a little extra authority."
"You thought wrong,” she said, turning her back on Umbridge. “Now, you two had better listen closely. I do not care what provocation Malfoy offered you, I do not care if he insulted every family member you possess, your behavior was disgusting and I am giving each of you a week’s worth of detention! Do not look at me like that, Potter, you deserve it! And if either of you ever —"
"Hem, hem."
"Yes?"
"I think they deserve rather more than detentions,"
"But unfortunately,” she said, with an attempt at a reciprocal smile that made her look as though she had lockjaw, “it is what I think that counts, as they are in my House, Dolores."
"Well, actually, Minerva,” simpered Umbridge, “I think you’ll find that what I think does count. Now, where is it? Cornelius just sent it. . . . I mean,” she gave a little false laugh as she rummaged in her handbag, “the Minister just sent it. . . . Ah yes . . ."
"Hem, hem . . . ‘Educational Decree Number Twenty-five . . .’"
"Not another one!"
"Well, yes,” said Umbridge, still smiling. “As a matter of fact, Minerva, it was you who made me see that we needed a further amendment. . . . You remember how you overrode me, when I was unwilling to allow the Gryffindor Quidditch team to re-form? How you took the case to Dumbledore, who insisted that the team be allowed to play? Well, now, I couldn’t have that. I contacted the Minister at once, and he quite agreed with me that the High Inquisitor has to have the power to strip pupils of privileges, or she — that is to say, I — would have less authority than common teachers! And you see now, don’t you, Minerva, how right I was in attempting to stop the Gryffindor team re-forming? Dreadful tempers . . . Anyway, I was reading out our amendment . . . hem, hem . . . ‘The High Inquisitor will henceforth have supreme authority over all punishments, sanctions, and removal of privileges pertaining to the students of Hogwarts, and the power to alter such punishments, sanctions, and removals of privileges as may have been ordered by other staff members. Signed, Cornelius Fudge, Minister of Magic, Order of Merlin First Class, etc., etc . . .’"
"So . . . I really think I will have to ban these two from playing Quidditch ever again,"
"Ban us?” he said, and his voice sounded strangely distant. “From playing . . . ever again?"
"Yes, Mr. Potter, I think a lifelong ban ought to do the trick,” said Umbridge, her smile widening still further as she watched him struggle to comprehend what she had said. “You and Mr. Weasley here. And I think, to be safe, this young man’s twin ought to be stopped too — if his teammates had not restrained him, I feel sure he would have attacked young Mr. Malfoy as well. I will want their broomsticks confiscated, of course; I shall keep them safely in my office, to make sure there is no infringement of my ban. But I am not unreasonable, Professor McGonagall,” she continued, turning back to Professor McGonagall who was now standing as still as though carved from ice, staring at her. “The rest of the team can continue playing, I saw no signs of violence from any of them. Well . . . good afternoon to you."
"Banned,” said Angelina in a hollow voice, late that evening in the common room. “Banned. No Seeker and no Beaters . . . What on earth are we going to do?"
"It’s just so unfair,” said Alicia numbly. “I mean, what about Crabbe and that Bludger he hit after the whistle had been blown? Has she banned him?"
"No,” said Ginny miserably; she and Hermione were sitting on either side of Harry. “He just got lines, I heard Montague laughing about it at dinner."
"And banning Fred when he didn’t even do anything!"
"It’s not my fault I didn’t,” said Fred, with a very ugly look on his face. “I would’ve pounded the little scumbag to a pulp if you three hadn’t been holding me back."
"I’m going to bed,” said Angelina, getting slowly to her feet. “Maybe this will all turn out to have been a bad dream. . . . Maybe I’ll wake up tomorrow and find we haven’t played yet . . ."
"Have you seen Ron?"
"I think he’s avoiding us,” said Hermione. “Where do you think he — ?"
"Where have you been?"
"Walking,"
"You look frozen,” said Hermione. “Come and sit down!"
"I’m sorry,"
"What for?"
"For thinking I can play Quidditch,” said Ron. “I’m going to resign first thing tomorrow."
"If you resign,” said Harry testily, “there’ll only be three players left on the team.” And when Ron looked puzzled, he said, “I’ve been given a lifetime ban. So’ve Fred and George."
"What?"
"This is all my fault —"
"You didn’t make me punch Malfoy,"
"— if I wasn’t so lousy at Quidditch —"
"— it’s got nothing to do with that —"
"— it was that song that wound me up —"
"— it would’ve wound anyone up —"
"Look, drop it, will you!” Harry burst out. “It’s bad enough without you blaming yourself for everything!"
"This is the worst I’ve ever felt in my life."
"Join the club,"
"Well,” said Hermione, her voice trembling slightly. “I can think of one thing that might cheer you both up."
"Oh yeah?"
"Yeah,” said Hermione, turning away from the pitch-black, snow-flecked window, a broad smile spreading across her face. “Hagrid’s back."
"Well, it’s cold out there!"
"Weasley Is Our King."
"Hagrid, it’s us!"
"Shoulda known!"
"Bin home three seconds . . . Out the way, Fang . . . Out the way, yeh dozy dog . . ."
"Merlin’s beard, keep it down!” said Hagrid hastily, staring wildly over their heads. “Under that Cloak, are yeh? Well, get in, get in!"
"I’m sorry!” Hermione gasped, as the three of them squeezed past Hagrid into the house and pulled the Cloak off themselves so he could see them. “I just — oh, Hagrid!"
"It’s nuthin’, it’s nuthin’!"
"What happened to you?"
"Told yeh, nuthin’,” said Hagrid firmly. “Want a cuppa?"
"Come off it,” said Ron, “you’re in a right state!"
"I’m tellin’ yeh, I’m fine,” said Hagrid, straightening up and turning to beam at them all, but wincing. “Blimey, it’s good ter see you three again — had good summers, did yeh?"
"Hagrid, you’ve been attacked!"
"Fer the las’ time, it’s nuthin’!"
"Would you say it was nothing if one of us turned up with a pound of mince instead of a face?"
"You ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid,” said Hermione anxiously. “Some of those cuts look nasty."
"I’m dealin’ with it, all righ’?"
"You’re not going to eat that, are you, Hagrid?” said Ron, leaning in for a closer look. “It looks poisonous."
"It’s s’posed ter look like that, it’s dragon meat,” Hagrid said. “An’ I didn’ get it ter eat."
"Tha’s better. It helps with the stingin’, yeh know."
"So are you going to tell us what’s happened to you?"
"Can’, Harry. Top secret. More’n me job’s worth ter tell yeh that."
"Did the giants beat you up, Hagrid?"
"Giants?” said Hagrid, catching the steak before it reached his belt and slapping it back over his face. “Who said anythin’ abou’ giants? Who yeh bin talkin’ to? Who’s told yeh what I’ve — who’s said I’ve bin — eh?"
"We guessed,"
"Oh, yeh did, did yeh?"
"It was kind of . . . obvious,"
"Never known kids like you three fer knowin’ more’n yeh oughta,” he muttered, splashing boiling water into three of his bucket-shaped mugs. “An’ I’m not complimentin’ yeh, neither. Nosy, some’d call it. Interferin’."
"So you have been to look for giants?"
"Yeah, all righ’,” he grunted, “I have."
"And you found them?"
"Well, they’re not that difficult ter find, ter be honest,” said Hagrid. “Pretty big, see."
"Where are they?"
"Mountains,"
"So why don’t Muggles — ?"
"They do,” said Hagrid darkly. “O’ny their deaths are always put down ter mountaineerin’ accidents, aren’ they?"
"Come on, Hagrid, tell us what you’ve been up to!” said Ron. “Tell us about being attacked by the giants and Harry can tell you about being attacked by the dementors —"
"Whadda yeh mean, attacked by dementors?"
"Didn’t you know?"
"I don’ know anything that’s been happenin’ since I left. I was on a secret mission, wasn’ I, didn’ wan’ owls followin’ me all over the place — ruddy dementors! Yeh’re not serious?"
"Yeah, I am, they turned up in Little Whinging and attacked my cousin and me, and then the Ministry of Magic expelled me —"
"WHAT?"
"— and I had to go to a hearing and everything, but tell us about the giants first."
"You were expelled?"
"Tell us about your summer and I’ll tell you about mine."
"Oh, all righ’,"
"Oh, Hagrid, don’t, it’s not hygien —” Hermione began, but Hagrid had already slapped the meat back over his swollen eye. He took another fortifying gulp of tea and then said, “Well, we set off righ’ after term ended —"
"Madame Maxime went with you, then?"
"Yeah, tha’s right,” said Hagrid, and a softened expression appeared on the few inches of face that were not obscured by beard or green steak. “Yeah, it was jus’ the pair of us. An’ I’ll tell yeh this, she’s not afraid of roughin’ it, Olympe. Yeh know, she’s a fine, well-dressed woman, an’ knowin’ where we was goin’ I wondered ’ow she’d feel abou’ clamberin’ over boulders an’ sleepin’ in caves an’ tha’, bu’ she never complained once."
"You knew where you were going?” Harry asked. “You knew where the giants were?"
"Well, Dumbledore knew, an’ he told us,"
"Are they hidden?” asked Ron. “Is it a secret, where they are?"
"Not really,” said Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. “It’s jus’ that mos’ wizards aren’ bothered where they are, s’ long as it’s a good long way away. But where they are’s very difficult ter get ter, fer humans anyway, so we needed Dumbledore’s instructions. Took us abou’ a month ter get there —"
"A month?” said Ron, as though he had never heard of a journey lasting such a ridiculously long time. “But — why couldn’t you just grab a Portkey or something?"
"We’re bein’ watched, Ron,"
"What d’you mean?"
"Yeh don’ understand,” said Hagrid. “The Ministry’s keepin’ an eye on Dumbledore an’ anyone they reckon’s in league with him, an’ —"
"We know about that,” said Harry quickly, keen to hear the rest of Hagrid’s story. “We know about the Ministry watching Dumbledore —"
"So you couldn’t use magic to get there?” asked Ron, looking thunderstruck. “You had to act like Muggles all the way?"
"Well, not exactly all the way,” said Hagrid cagily. “We jus’ had ter be careful, ’cause Olympe an’ me, we stick out a bit —"
"— so we’re not hard ter follow. We was pretendin’ we was goin’ on holiday together, so we got inter France an’ we made like we was headin’ fer where Olympe’s school is, ’cause we knew we was bein’ tailed by someone from the Ministry. We had to go slow, ’cause I’m not really s’posed ter use magic an’ we knew the Ministry’d be lookin’ fer a reason ter run us in. But we managed ter give the berk tailin’ us the slip round abou’ Dee-John —"
"Ooooh, Dijon?” said Hermione excitedly. “I’ve been there on holiday, did you see — ?"
"We had ter lay off the magic once we got near ’em. Partly ’cause they don’ like wizards an’ we didn’ want ter put their backs up too soon, and partly ’cause Dumbledore had warned us You-Know-Who was bound ter be after the giants an’ all. Said it was odds on he’d sent a messenger off ter them already. Told us ter be very careful of drawin’ attention ter ourselves as we got nearer in case there was Death Eaters around."
"Go on!"
"Found ’em,” said Hagrid baldly. “Went over a ridge one nigh’ an’ there they was, spread ou’ underneath us. Little fires burnin’ below an’ huge shadows . . . It was like watchin’ bits o’ the mountain movin’."
"How big are they?"
"’Bout twenty feet,” said Hagrid casually. “Some o’ the bigger ones mighta bin twenty-five."
"And how many were there?"
"I reckon abou’ seventy or eighty,"
"Is that all?"
"Yep,” said Hagrid sadly, “eighty left, an’ there was loads once, musta bin a hundred diff’rent tribes from all over the world. But they’ve bin dyin’ out fer ages. Wizards killed a few, o’ course, but mostly they killed each other, an’ now they’re dyin’ out faster than ever. They’re not made ter live bunched up together like tha’. Dumbledore says it’s our fault, it was the wizards who forced ’em to go an’ made ’em live a good long way from us an’ they had no choice but ter stick together fer their own protection."
"So,” said Harry, “you saw them and then what?"
"Well, we waited till morning, didn’ want ter go sneakin’ up on ’em in the dark, fer our own safety,"
"Anyway, once it was light we wen’ down ter see ’em."
"Just like that?” said Ron, looking awestruck. “You just walked right into a giant camp?"
"Well, Dumbledore’d told us how ter do it,” said Hagrid. “Give the Gurg gifts, show some respect, yeh know."
"Give the what gifts?"
"Oh, the Gurg — means the chief."
"How could you tell which one was the Gurg?"
"No problem,” he said. “He was the biggest, the ugliest, an’ the laziest. Sittin’ there waitin’ ter be brought food by the others. Dead goats an’ such like. Name o’ Karkus. I’d put him at twenty-two, twenty-three feet, an’ the weight of a couple o’ bull elephants. Skin like rhino hide an’ all."
"And you just walked up to him?"
"Well . . . down ter him, where he was lyin’ in the valley. They was in this dip between four pretty high mountains, see, beside a mountain lake, an’ Karkus was lyin’ by the lake roarin’ at the others ter feed him an’ his wife. Olympe an’ I went down the mountainside —"
"But didn’t they try and kill you when they saw you?"
"It was def’nitely on some of their minds,” said Hagrid, shrugging, “but we did what Dumbledore told us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high an’ keep our eyes on the Gurg an’ ignore the others. So tha’s what we did. An’ the rest of ’em went quiet an’ watched us pass an’ we got right up ter Karkus’s feet an’ we bowed an’ put our present down in front o’ him."
"What do you give a giant?” asked Ron eagerly. “Food?"
"Nah, he can get food all righ’ fer himself,” said Hagrid. “We took him magic. Giants like magic, jus’ don’t like us usin’ it against ’em. Anyway, that firs’ day we gave him a branch o’ Gubraithian fire."
"wow"
"A branch of — ?"
"Everlasting fire,” said Hermione irritably, “you ought to know that by now, Professor Flitwick’s mentioned it at least twice in class!"
"Well anyway,” said Hagrid quickly, intervening before Ron could answer back, “Dumbledore’d bewitched this branch to burn evermore, which isn’ somethin’ any wizard could do, an’ so I lies it down in the snow by Karkus’s feet and says, ‘A gift to the Gurg of the giants from Albus Dumbledore, who sends his respectful greetings.’"
"And what did Karkus say?"
"Nothin’,” said Hagrid. “Didn’ speak English."
"You’re kidding!"
"Didn’ matter,” said Hagrid imperturbably, “Dumbledore had warned us tha’ migh’ happen. Karkus knew enough to yell fer a couple o’ giants who knew our lingo an’ they translated fer us."
"And did he like the present?"
"Oh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood what it was,” said Hagrid, turning his dragon steak over to press the cooler side to his swollen eye. “Very pleased. So then I said, ‘Albus Dumbledore asks the Gurg to speak with his messenger when he returns tomorrow with another gift.’"
"Why couldn’t you speak to them that day?"
"Dumbledore wanted us ter take it very slow,” said Hagrid. “Let ’em see we kept our promises. We’ll come back tomorrow with another present, an’ then we do come back with another present — gives a good impression, see? An’ gives them time ter test out the firs’ present an’ find out it’s a good one, an’ get ’em eager fer more. In any case, giants like Karkus — overload ’em with information an’ they’ll kill yeh jus’ to simplify things. So we bowed outta the way an’ went off an’ found ourselves a nice little cave ter spend that night in, an’ the followin’ mornin’ we went back an’ this time we found Karkus sittin’ up waitin’ fer us lookin’ all eager."
"And you talked to him?"
"Oh yeah. Firs’ we presented him with a nice battle helmet — goblin-made an’ indestructible, yeh know — an’ then we sat down an’ we talked."
"What did he say?"
"Not much,"
"But that night it all wen’ wrong."
"What d’you mean?"
"Well, like I say, they’re not meant ter live together, giants,” said Hagrid sadly. “Not in big groups like that. They can’ help themselves, they half kill each other every few weeks. The men fight each other an’ the women fight each other, the remnants of the old tribes fight each other, an’ that’s even without squabbles over food an’ the best fires an’ sleepin’ spots. Yeh’d think, seein’ as how their whole race is abou’ finished, they’d lay off each other, but . . ."
"That night a fight broke out, we saw it from the mouth of our cave, lookin’ down on the valley. Went on fer hours, yeh wouldn’ believe the noise. An’ when the sun came up the snow was scarlet an’ his head was lyin’ at the bottom o’ the lake."
"Whose head?"
"Karkus’s,” said Hagrid heavily. “There was a new Gurg, Golgomath.” He sighed deeply. “Well, we hadn’ bargained on a new Gurg two days after we’d made friendly contact with the firs’ one, an’ we had a funny feelin’ Golgomath wouldn’ be so keen ter listen to us, but we had ter try."
"You went to speak to him?” asked Ron incredulously. “After you’d watched him rip off another giant’s head?"
"’Course we did,"
"I knew it was no go before I’d opened me mouth. He was sitting there wearin’ Karkus’s helmet, leerin’ at us as we got nearer. He’s massive, one o’ the biggest ones there. Black hair an’ matchin’ teeth an’ a necklace o’ bones. Human-lookin’ bones, some of ’em. Well, I gave it a go — held out a great roll o’ dragon skin — an’ said ‘A gift fer the Gurg of the giants —’ Nex’ thing I knew, I was hangin’ upside down in the air by me feet, two of his mates had grabbed me."
"How did you get out of that?"
"Wouldn’ta done if Olympe hadn’ bin there,” said Hagrid. “She pulled out her wand an’ did some o’ the fastes’ spellwork I’ve ever seen. Ruddy marvelous. Hit the two holdin’ me right in the eyes with Conjunctivitus Curses an’ they dropped me straightaway — bu’ we were in trouble then, ’cause we’d used magic against ’em, an’ that’s what giants hate abou’ wizards. We had ter leg it an’ we knew there was no way we was going ter be able ter march inter camp again."
"Blimey, Hagrid,"
"So how come it’s taken you so long to get home if you were only there for three days?"
"We didn’ leave after three days!” said Hagrid, looking outraged. “Dumbledore was relyin’ on us!"
"But you’ve just said there was no way you could go back!"
"Not by daylight, we couldn’, no. We just had ter rethink a bit. Spent a couple o’ days lyin’ low up in the cave an’ watchin’. An’ wha’ we saw wasn’ good."
"Did he rip off more heads?"
"No,” said Hagrid. “I wish he had."
"What d’you mean?"
"I mean we soon found out he didn’ object ter all wizards — just us."
"Death Eaters?"
"Yep,” said Hagrid darkly. “Couple of ’em were visitin’ him ev’ry day, bringin’ gifts ter the Gurg, an’ he wasn’ dangling them upside down."
"How d’you know they were Death Eaters?"
"Because I recognized one of ’em,” Hagrid growled. “Macnair, remember him? Bloke they sent ter kill Buckbeak? Maniac, he is. Likes killin’ as much as Golgomath, no wonder they were gettin’ on so well."
"So Macnair’s persuaded the giants to join You-Know-Who?"
"Hold yer hippogriffs, I haven’ finished me story yet!” said Hagrid indignantly, who, considering he had not wanted to tell them anything in the first place, now seemed to be rather enjoying himself. “Me an’ Olympe talked it over an’ we agreed, jus’ ’cause the Gurg looked like favorin’ You-Know-Who didn’ mean all of ’em would. We had ter try an’ persuade some o’ the others, the ones who hadn’ wanted Golgomath as Gurg."
"How could you tell which ones they were?"
"Well, they were the ones bein’ beaten to a pulp, weren’ they?” said Hagrid patiently. “The ones with any sense were keepin’ outta Golgomath’s way, hidin’ out in caves roun’ the gully jus’ like we were. So we decided we’d go pokin’ round the caves by night an’ see if we couldn’ persuade a few o’ them."
"You went poking around dark caves looking for giants?"
"Well, it wasn’ the giants who worried us most,” said Hagrid. “We were more concerned abou’ the Death Eaters. Dumbledore had told us before we wen’ not ter tangle with ’em if we could avoid it, an’ the trouble was they knew we was around — ’spect Golgomath told him abou’ us. At night when the giants were sleepin’ an’ we wanted ter be creepin’ inter the caves, Macnair an’ the other one were sneakin’ round the mountains lookin’ fer us. I was hard put to stop Olympe jumpin’ out at them,” said Hagrid, the corners of his mouth lifting his wild beard. “She was rarin’ ter attack ’em. . . . She’s somethin’ when she’s roused, Olympe. . . . Fiery, yeh know . . . ’spect it’s the French in her . . ."
"So what happened? Did you ever get near any of the other giants?"
"What? Oh . . . oh yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third night after Karkus was killed, we crept outta the cave we’d bin hidin’ in and headed back down inter the gully, keepin’ our eyes skinned fer the Death Eaters. Got inside a few o’ the caves, no go — then, in abou’ the sixth one, we found three giants hidin’."
"Cave must’ve been cramped,"
"Wasn’ room ter swing a kneazle,"
"Didn’t they attack you when they saw you?"
"Probably woulda done if they’d bin in any condition,” said Hagrid, “but they was badly hurt, all three o’ them. Golgomath’s lot had beaten ’em unconscious; they’d woken up an’ crawled inter the nearest shelter they could find. Anyway, one o’ them had a bit of English an’ ’e translated fer the others, an’ what we had ter say didn’ seem ter go down too badly. So we kep’ goin’ back, visitin’ the wounded. . . . I reckon we had abou’ six or seven o’ them convinced at one poin’."
"Six or seven?” said Ron eagerly. “Well that’s not bad — are they going to come over here and start fighting You-Know-Who with us?"
"What do you mean ‘at one point,’ Hagrid?"
"Golgomath’s lot raided the caves. The ones tha’ survived didn’ wan’ no more ter to do with us after that."
"So . . . so there aren’t any giants coming?"
"Nope,” said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned over his steak again and applied the cooler side to his face, “but we did wha’ we meant ter do, we gave ’em Dumbledore’s message an’ some o’ them heard it an’ I ’spect some o’ them’ll remember it. Jus’ maybe, them that don’ want ter stay around Golgomath’ll move outta the mountains, an’ there’s gotta be a chance they’ll remember Dumbledore’s friendly to ’em. . . . Could be they’ll come . . ."
"Hagrid?"
"Mmm?"
"Did you . . . was there any sign of . . . did you hear anything about your . . . your . . . mother while you were there?"
"I’m sorry . . . I . . . forget it —"
"Dead,” Hagrid grunted. “Died years ago. They told me."
"Oh . . . I’m . . . I’m really sorry,"
"No need,” he said shortly. “Can’ remember her much. Wasn’ a great mother."
"But you still haven’t explained how you got in this state, Hagrid,"
"Or why you’re back so late,” said Harry. “Sirius says Madame Maxime got back ages ago —"
"Who attacked you?"
"I haven’ bin attacked!” said Hagrid emphatically. “I —"
"It’s her!"
"Get under here!"
"Hagrid, hide our mugs!"
"So,” she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking to somebody deaf. “You’re Hagrid, are you?"
"Get away,"
"Er — I don’ want ter be rude,” said Hagrid, staring at her, “but who the ruddy hell are you?"
"My name is Dolores Umbridge."
"Dolores Umbridge?” Hagrid said, sounding thoroughly confused. “I thought you were one o’ them Ministry — don’ you work with Fudge?"
"I was Senior Undersecretary to the Minister, yes,” said Umbridge, now pacing around the cabin, taking in every tiny detail within, from the haversack against the wall to the abandoned traveling cloak. “I am now the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher —"
"Tha’s brave of yeh,” said Hagrid, “there’s not many’d take tha’ job anymore —"
"— and Hogwarts High Inquisitor,"
"Wha’s that?"
"Precisely what I was going to ask,"
"Oh,” said Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance toward the corner where Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood hidden, “oh, tha’ was . . . was Fang. He broke a mug. So I had ter use this one instead."
"I heard voices,"
"I was talkin’ ter Fang,"
"And was he talking back to you?"
"Well . . . in a manner o’ speakin’,” said Hagrid, looking uncomfortable. “I sometimes say Fang’s near enough human —"
"There are three sets of footprints in the snow leading from the castle doors to your cabin,"
"Well, I on’y jus’ got back,” said Hagrid, waving an enormous hand at the haversack. “Maybe someone came ter call earlier an’ I missed ’em."
"There are no footsteps leading away from your cabin door."
"Well I . . . I don’ know why that’d be . . .” said Hagrid, tugging nervously at his beard and again glancing toward the corner where Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood, as though asking for help. “Erm . . ."
"What has happened to you? How did you sustain those injuries?"
"Oh, I . . . had a bit of an accident,"
"What sort of accident?"
"I-I tripped."
"You tripped,"
"Yeah, tha’s right. Over . . . over a friend’s broomstick. I don’ fly, meself. Well, look at the size o’ me, I don’ reckon there’s a broomstick that’d hold me. Friend o’ mine breeds Abraxan horses, I dunno if you’ve ever seen ’em, big beasts, winged, yeh know, I’ve had a bit of a ride on one o’ them an’ it was —"
"Where have you been?"
"Where’ve I . . . ?"
"Been, yes,” she said. “Term started more than two months ago. Another teacher has had to cover your classes. None of your colleagues has been able to give me any information as to your whereabouts. You left no address. Where have you been?"
"I — I’ve been away for me health,"
"For your health,” said Umbridge. Her eyes traveled over Hagrid’s discolored and swollen face; dragon blood dripped gently onto his waistcoat in the silence. “I see."
"Yeah,” said Hagrid, “bit o’ — o’ fresh air, yeh know —"
"Yes, as gamekeeper fresh air must be so difficult to come by,"
"Well — change o’ scene, yeh know —"
"Mountain scenery?"
"Mountains?” Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. “Nope, South of France fer me. Bit o’ sun an’ . . . an’ sea."
"Really?” said Umbridge. “You don’t have much of a tan."
"Yeah . . . well . . . sensitive skin,” said Hagrid, attempting an ingratiating smile. Harry noticed that two of his teeth had been knocked out. Umbridge looked at him coldly; his smile faltered. Then she hoisted her handbag a little higher into the crook of her arm and said, “I shall, of course, be informing the Minister of your late return."
"Righ’,"
"You ought to know too that as High Inquisitor it is my unfortunate but necessary duty to inspect my fellow teachers. So I daresay we shall meet again soon enough."
"You’re inspectin’ us?"
"Oh yes,” said Umbridge softly, looking back at him with her hand on the door handle. “The Ministry is determined to weed out unsatisfactory teachers, Hagrid. Good night."
"Not yet,” she breathed in his ear. “She might not be gone yet."
"She’s goin’ back ter the castle,” he said in a low voice. “Blimey . . . inspectin’ people, is she?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, pulling the Cloak off. “Trelawney’s on probation already . . ."
"Um . . . what sort of thing are you planning to do with us in class, Hagrid?"
"Oh, don’ you worry abou’ that, I’ve got a great load o’ lessons planned,” said Hagrid enthusiastically, scooping up his dragon steak from the table and slapping it over his eye again. “I’ve bin keepin’ a couple o’ creatures saved fer yer O.W.L. year, you wait, they’re somethin’ really special."
"Erm . . . special in what way?"
"I’m not sayin’,” said Hagrid happily. “I don’ want ter spoil the surprise."
"Look, Hagrid,” said Hermione urgently, dropping all pretense, “Professor Umbridge won’t be at all happy if you bring anything to class that’s too dangerous —"
"Dangerous?” said Hagrid, looking genially bemused. “Don’ be silly, I wouldn’ give yeh anythin’ dangerous! I mean, all righ’, they can look after themselves —"
"Hagrid, you’ve got to pass Umbridge’s inspection, and to do that it would really be better if she saw you teaching us how to look after porlocks, how to tell the difference between knarls and hedgehogs, stuff like that!"
"But tha’s not very interestin’, Hermione,” said Hagrid. “The stuff I’ve got’s much more impressive, I’ve bin bringin’ ’em on fer years, I reckon I’ve got the on’y domestic herd in Britain —"
"Hagrid . . . please . . .” said Hermione, a note of real desperation in her voice. “Umbridge is looking for any excuse to get rid of teachers she thinks are too close to Dumbledore. Please, Hagrid, teach us something dull that’s bound to come up in our O.W.L . . ."
"Lis’en, it’s bin a long day an’ it’s late,” he said, patting Hermione gently on the shoulder, so that her knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud. “Oh — sorry —” He pulled her back up by the neck of her robes. “Look, don’ you go worryin’ abou’ me, I promise yeh I’ve got really good stuff planned fer yer lessons now I’m back. . . . Now you lot had better get back up to the castle, an’ don’ forget ter wipe yer footprints out behind yeh!"
"I dunno if you got through to him,"
"Then I’ll go back again tomorrow,” said Hermione determinedly. “I’ll plan his lessons for him if I have to. I don’t care if she throws out Trelawney but she’s not taking Hagrid!"
"Oy!” bellowed Ron, finally losing patience and sticking his head out of the window, “I am a prefect and if one more snowball hits this window — OUCH!"
"It’s Fred and George,” he said bitterly, slamming the window behind him. “Gits . . ."
"So?” said Ron, looking up when she entered. “Got all his lessons planned for him?"
"Well, I tried,” she said dully, sinking into a chair beside Harry. She pulled out her wand and gave it a complicated little wave so that hot air streamed out of the tip; she then pointed this at her robes, which began to steam as they dried out. “He wasn’t even there when I arrived, I was knocking for at least half an hour. And then he came stumping out of the forest —"
"What’s he keeping in there? Did he say?"
"No,” said Hermione miserably. “He says he wants them to be a surprise. I tried to explain about Umbridge, but he just doesn’t get it. He kept saying nobody in their right mind would rather study knarls than chimaeras — oh I don’t think he’s got a chimaera,” she added at the appalled look on Harry and Ron’s faces, “but that’s not for lack of trying from what he said about how hard it is to get eggs. . . . I don’t know how many times I told him he’d be better off following Grubbly-Plank’s plan, I honestly don’t think he listened to half of what I said. He’s in a bit of a funny mood, you know. He still won’t say how he got all those injuries . . ."
"We’re workin’ in here today!” Hagrid called happily to the approaching students, jerking his head back at the dark trees behind him. “Bit more sheltered! Anyway, they prefer the dark . . ."
"What prefers the dark?” Harry heard Malfoy say sharply to Crabbe and Goyle, a trace of panic in his voice. “What did he say prefers the dark — did you hear?"
"Ready?” said Hagrid happily, looking around at the class. “Right, well, I’ve bin savin’ a trip inter the forest fer yer fifth year. Thought we’d go an’ see these creatures in their natural habitat. Now, what we’re studyin’ today is pretty rare, I reckon I’m probably the on’y person in Britain who’s managed ter train ’em —"
"And you’re sure they’re trained, are you?” said Malfoy, the panic in his voice even more pronounced now. “Only it wouldn’t be the first time you’d brought wild stuff to class, would it?"
"’Course they’re trained,"
"So what happened to your face, then?"
"Mind yer own business!” said Hagrid, angrily. “Now if yeh’ve finished askin’ stupid questions, follow me!"
"Gather roun’, gather roun’,” said Hagrid encouragingly. “Now, they’ll be attracted by the smell o’ the meat but I’m goin’ ter give ’em a call anyway, ’cause they’ll like ter know it’s me . . ."
"Why doesn’t Hagrid call again?"
"Oh, an’ here comes another one!” said Hagrid proudly, as a second black horse appeared out of the dark trees, folded its leathery wings closer to its body, and dipped its head to gorge on the meat. “Now . . . put yer hands up, who can see ’em?"
"Yeah . . . yeah, I knew you’d be able ter, Harry,” he said seriously. “An’ you too, Neville, eh? An’ —"
"Excuse me,” said Malfoy in a sneering voice, “but what exactly are we supposed to be seeing?"
"What’s doing it?” Parvati demanded in a terrified voice, retreating behind the nearest tree. “What’s eating it?"
"Thestrals,” said Hagrid proudly and Hermione gave a soft “oh!” of comprehension at Harry’s shoulder. “Hogwarts has got a whole herd of ’em in here. Now, who knows — ?"
"But they’re really, really unlucky!” interrupted Parvati, looking alarmed. “They’re supposed to bring all sorts of horrible misfortune on people who see them. Professor Trelawney told me once —"
"No, no, no,” said Hagrid, chuckling, “tha’s jus’ superstition, that is, they aren’ unlucky, they’re dead clever an’ useful! ’Course, this lot don’ get a lot o’ work, it’s mainly jus’ pullin’ the school carriages unless Dumbledore’s takin’ a long journey an’ don’ want ter Apparate — an’ here’s another couple, look —"
"I think I felt something, I think it’s near me!"
"Don’ worry, it won’ hurt yeh,” said Hagrid patiently. “Righ’, now, who can tell me why some o’ you can see them an’ some can’t?"
"Go on then,"
"The only people who can see thestrals,” she said, “are people who have seen death."
"Tha’s exactly right,” said Hagrid solemnly, “ten points ter Gryffindor. Now, thestrals —"
"Hem, hem."
"Hem, hem."
"Oh hello!"
"You received the note I sent to your cabin this morning?” said Umbridge, in the same loud, slow voice she had used with him earlier, as though she was addressing somebody both foreign and very slow. “Telling you that I would be inspecting your lesson?"
"Oh yeah,” said Hagrid brightly. “Glad yeh found the place all righ’! Well, as you can see — or, I dunno — can you? We’re doin’ thestrals today —"
"I’m sorry?” said Umbridge loudly, cupping her hand around her ear and frowning. “What did you say?"
"Er — thestrals!” he said loudly. “Big — er — winged horses, yeh know!"
"‘has . . . to . . . resort . . . to . . . crude . . . sign . . . language . . .’"
"Well . . . anyway . . .” said Hagrid, turning back to the class and looking slightly flustered. “Erm . . . what was I sayin’?"
"‘Appears . . . to . . . have . . . poor . . . short . . . term . . . memory . . .’"
"Oh yeah,” said Hagrid, throwing an uneasy glance at Umbridge’s clipboard, but plowing on valiantly. “Yeah, I was gonna tell yeh how come we got a herd. Yeah, so, we started off with a male an’ five females. This one,” he patted the first horse to have appeared, “name o’ Tenebrus, he’s my special favorite, firs’ one born here in the forest —"
"Are you aware,” Umbridge said loudly, interrupting him, “that the Ministry of Magic has classified thestrals as ‘dangerous’?"
"Thestrals aren’ dangerous! All righ’, they might take a bite outta you if yeh really annoy them —"
"‘Shows . . . signs . . . of . . . pleasure . . . at . . . idea . . . of . . . violence . . .’"
"No — come on!” said Hagrid, looking a little anxious now. “I mean, a dog’ll bite if yeh bait it, won’ it — but thestrals have jus’ got a bad reputation because o’ the death thing — people used ter think they were bad omens, didn’ they? Jus’ didn’ understand, did they?"
"Please continue teaching as usual. I am going to walk” — she mimed walking — Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson were having silent fits of laughter — “among the students” — she pointed around at individual members of the class — “and ask them questions."
"You hag, you evil hag!” she whispered, as Umbridge walked toward Pansy Parkinson. “I know what you’re doing, you awful, twisted, vicious —"
"Erm . . . anyway,” said Hagrid, clearly struggling to regain the flow of his lesson, “so — thestrals. Yeah. Well, there’s loads o’ good stuff abou’ them . . ."
"Do you find,” said Professor Umbridge in a ringing voice to Pansy Parkinson, “that you are able to understand Professor Hagrid when he talks?"
"No . . . because . . . well . . . it sounds . . . like grunting a lot of the time . . ."
"Er . . . yeah . . . good stuff abou’ thestrals. Well, once they’re tamed, like this lot, yeh’ll never be lost again. ’Mazin’ senses o’ direction, jus’ tell ’em where yeh want ter go —"
"Assuming they can understand you, of course,"
"You can see the thestrals, Longbottom, can you?"
"Whom did you see die?"
"My . . . my grandad,"
"And what do you think of them?"
"Erm,” said Neville nervously, with a glance at Hagrid. “Well, they’re . . . er . . . okay . . ."
"‘Students . . . are . . . too . . . intimidated . . . to . . . admit . . . they . . . are . . . frightened . . .’"
"No!” said Neville, looking upset, “no, I’m not scared of them — !"
"It’s quite all right,” said Umbridge, patting Neville on the shoulder with what she evidently intended to be an understanding smile, though it looked more like a leer to Harry. “Well, Hagrid,” she turned to look up at him again, speaking once more in that loud, slow voice, “I think I’ve got enough to be getting along with. . . . You will receive” — she mimed taking something from the air in front of her — “the results of your inspection” — she pointed at the clipboard — “in ten days’ time."
"That foul, lying, twisting old gargoyle!” stormed Hermione half an hour later, as they made their way back up to the castle through the channels they had made earlier in the snow. “You see what she’s up to? It’s her thing about half-breeds all over again — she’s trying to make out Hagrid’s some kind of dim-witted troll, just because he had a giantess for a mother — and oh, it’s not fair, that really wasn’t a bad lesson at all — I mean, all right, if it had been Blast-Ended Skrewts again, but thestrals are fine — in fact, for Hagrid, they’re really good!"
"Umbridge said they’re dangerous,"
"Well, it’s like Hagrid said, they can look after themselves,” said Hermione impatiently, “and I suppose a teacher like Grubbly-Plank wouldn’t usually show them to us before N.E.W.T. level, but, well, they are very interesting, aren’t they? The way some people can see them and some can’t! I wish I could."
"Do you?"
"Oh Harry — I’m sorry — no, of course I don’t — that was a really stupid thing to say —"
"It’s okay,” he said quickly, “don’t worry . . ."
"I’m surprised so many people could see them,” said Ron. “Three in a class —"
"Yeah, Weasley, we were just wondering,” said a malicious voice nearby. Unheard by any of them in the muffling snow, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were walking along right behind them. “D’you reckon if you saw someone snuff it you’d be able to see the Quaffle better?"
"Weasley Is Our King."
"Ignore them, just ignore them,"
"You try putting up tinsel when Peeves has got the other end and is trying to strangle you with it,” said Ron), to watch over first and second years spending their break times inside because of the bitter cold (“And they’re cheeky little snotrags, you know, we definitely weren’t that rude when we were in first year,” said Ron), and to patrol the corridors in shifts with Argus Filch, who suspected that the holiday spirit might show itself in an outbreak of wizard duels (“He’s got dung for brains, that one,"
"All those poor elves I haven’t set free yet, having to stay over during Christmas because there aren’t enough hats!"
"But you’re coming too! Didn’t I say? Mum wrote and told me to invite you weeks ago!"
"Hello,” she said vaguely, looking around at what remained of the decorations. “These are nice, did you put them up?"
"No,” said Harry, “it was Dobby the house-elf."
"Mistletoe,” said Luna dreamily, pointing at a large clump of white berries placed almost over Harry’s head. He jumped out from under it. “Good thinking,” said Luna very seriously. “It’s often infested with nargles."
"Well,” said Angelina dully, pulling off her cloak and throwing it into a corner, “we’ve replaced you."
"Replaced me?"
"You and Fred and George,” she said impatiently. “We’ve got another Seeker!"
"Who?"
"Ginny Weasley,"
"Yeah, I know,” said Angelina, pulling out her wand and flexing her arm. “But she’s pretty good, actually. Nothing on you, of course,” she said, throwing him a very dirty look, “but as we can’t have you . . ."
"And what about the Beaters?"
"Andrew Kirke,” said Alicia without enthusiasm, “and Jack Sloper. Neither of them are brilliant, but compared with the rest of the idiots who turned up . . ."
"Okay,” he said, calling them all to order. “I thought this evening we should just go over the things we’ve done so far, because it’s the last meeting before the holidays and there’s no point starting anything new right before a three-week break —"
"We’re not doing anything new?” said Zacharias Smith, in a disgruntled whisper loud enough to carry through the room. “If I’d known that, I wouldn’t have come . . ."
"We’re all really sorry Harry didn’t tell you, then,"
"We can practice in pairs,” said Harry. “We’ll start with the Impediment Jinx, just for ten minutes, then we can get out the cushions and try Stunning again."
"Impedimenta!"
"You’re getting really good,” he said, beaming around at them. “When we get back from the holidays we can start doing some of the big stuff — maybe even Patronuses."
"No, you go on,"
"Wha — ?"
"What’s up?"
"I’m — sorry,” she said thickly. “I suppose . . . it’s just . . . learning all this stuff. . . . It just makes me . . . wonder whether . . . if he’d known it all . . . he’d still be alive . . ."
"He did know this stuff,” Harry said heavily. “He was really good at it, or he could never have got to the middle of that maze. But if Voldemort really wants to kill you, you don’t stand a chance."
"You survived when you were just a baby,"
"Yeah, well,” said Harry wearily, moving toward the door, “I dunno why, nor does anyone else, so it’s nothing to be proud of."
"Oh don’t go!” said Cho, sounding tearful again. “I’m really sorry to get all upset like this. . . . I didn’t mean to . . ."
"I know it must be horrible for you,” she said, mopping her eyes on her sleeve again. “Me mentioning Cedric, when you saw him die. . . . I suppose you just want to forget about it . . ."
"You’re a r-really good teacher, you know,” said Cho, with a watery smile. “I’ve never been able to Stun anything before."
"Thanks,"
"Mistletoe,"
"Yeah,” said Harry. His mouth was very dry. “It’s probably full of nargles, though."
"What are nargles?"
"No idea,” said Harry. She had moved closer. His brain seemed to have been Stunned. “You’d have to ask Loony. Luna, I mean."
"I really like you, Harry."
"What kept you?"
"Are you all right, Harry?"
"What’s up?” said Ron, hoisting himself up on his elbow to get a clearer view of Harry. “What’s happened?"
"Is it Cho?” she asked in a businesslike way. “Did she corner you after the meeting?"
"So — er — what did she want?"
"She —” Harry began, rather hoarsely; he cleared his throat and tried again. “She — er —"
"Did you kiss?"
"Well?"
"HA!"
"Well?” Ron said finally, looking up at Harry. “How was it?"
"Wet,"
"Because she was crying,"
"Oh,” said Ron, his smile fading slightly. “Are you that bad at kissing?"
"Dunno,” said Harry, who hadn’t considered this, and immediately felt rather worried. “Maybe I am."
"Of course you’re not,"
"How do you know?"
"Because Cho spends half her time crying these days,” said Hermione vaguely. “She does it at mealtimes, in the loos, all over the place."
"You’d think a bit of kissing would cheer her up,"
"Ron,” said Hermione in a dignified voice, dipping the point of her quill into her ink pot, “you are the most insensitive wart I have ever had the misfortune to meet."
"What’s that supposed to mean?” said Ron indignantly. “What sort of person cries while someone’s kissing them?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, slightly desperately, “who does?"
"Don’t you understand how Cho’s feeling at the moment?"
"No,"
"Well, obviously, she’s feeling very sad, because of Cedric dying. Then I expect she’s feeling confused because she liked Cedric and now she likes Harry, and she can’t work out who she likes best. Then she’ll be feeling guilty, thinking it’s an insult to Cedric’s memory to be kissing Harry at all, and she’ll be worrying about what everyone else might say about her if she starts going out with Harry. And she probably can’t work out what her feelings toward Harry are anyway, because he was the one who was with Cedric when Cedric died, so that’s all very mixed up and painful. Oh, and she’s afraid she’s going to be thrown off the Ravenclaw Quidditch team because she’s been flying so badly."
"One person can’t feel all that at once, they’d explode."
"Just because you’ve got the emotional range of a teaspoon doesn’t mean we all have,"
"She was the one who started it,” said Harry. “I wouldn’t’ve — she just sort of came at me — and next thing she’s crying all over me — I didn’t know what to do —"
"Don’t blame you, mate,"
"You just had to be nice to her,” said Hermione, looking up anxiously. “You were, weren’t you?"
"Well,” said Harry, an unpleasant heat creeping up his face, “I sort of — patted her on the back a bit."
"Well, I suppose it could have been worse,” she said. “Are you going to see her again?"
"I’ll have to, won’t I?” said Harry. “We’ve got D.A. meetings, haven’t we?"
"You know what I mean,"
"Oh well,” said Hermione distantly, buried in her letter once more, “you’ll have plenty of opportunities to ask her . . ."
"What if he doesn’t want to ask her?"
"Don’t be silly,” said Hermione vaguely, “Harry’s liked her for ages, haven’t you, Harry?"
"Who’re you writing the novel to anyway?"
"Viktor."
"Krum?"
"How many other Viktors do we know?"
"Well, ’night,"
"What does she see in Krum?"
"Well,” said Harry, considering the matter, “I s’pose he’s older, isn’t he . . . and he’s an international Quidditch player . . ."
"Yeah, but apart from that,” said Ron, sounding aggravated. “I mean he’s a grouchy git, isn’t he?"
"Bit grouchy, yeah,"
"’Night,"
"’Night,"
"Cedric gave me loads of Chocolate Frog cards, look!” And she pulled out fistfuls of cards from inside her robes and threw them into the air, and then turned into Hermione, who said, “You did promise her, you know, Harry. . . . I think you’d better give her something else instead. . . . How about your Firebolt?"
"Harry! HARRY!"
"Harry!"
"He’s really ill,” said a scared voice. “Should we call someone?"
"Harry! Harry!"
"Your dad,” he panted, his chest heaving. “Your dad’s . . . been attacked . . ."
"What?"
"Your dad! He’s been bitten, it’s serious, there was blood everywhere . . ."
"I’m going for help,"
"Harry, mate,” said Ron uncertainly, “you . . . you were just dreaming . . ."
"No!” said Harry furiously; it was crucial that Ron understand. “It wasn’t a dream . . . not an ordinary dream. . . . I was there, I saw it. . . . I did it . . ."
"Harry, you’re not well,” he said shakily. “Neville’s gone for help . . ."
"I’m fine!” Harry choked, wiping his mouth on his pajamas and shaking uncontrollably. “There’s nothing wrong with me, it’s your dad you’ve got to worry about — we need to find out where he is — he’s bleeding like mad — I was — it was a huge snake . . ."
"Over here, Professor . . ."
"What is it, Potter? Where does it hurt?"
"It’s Ron’s dad,” he said, sitting up again. “He’s been attacked by a snake and it’s serious, I saw it happen."
"What do you mean, you saw it happen?"
"I don’t know. . . . I was asleep and then I was there . . ."
"You mean you dreamed this?"
"No!” said Harry angrily. Would none of them understand? “I was having a dream at first about something completely different, something stupid . . . and then this interrupted it. It was real, I didn’t imagine it, Mr. Weasley was asleep on the floor and he was attacked by a gigantic snake, there was a load of blood, he collapsed, someone’s got to find out where he is . . ."
"I’m not lying, and I’m not mad!” Harry told her, his voice rising to a shout. “I tell you, I saw it happen!"
"I believe you, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall curtly. “Put on your dressing-gown — we’re going to see the headmaster."
"Weasley, you ought to come too,"
"my fangs”) had been poisonous? They passed Mrs. Norris, who turned her lamplike eyes upon them and hissed faintly, but Professor McGonagall said, “Shoo!"
"Fizzing Whizbee,"
"Oh, it’s you, Professor McGonagall . . . and . . . ah."
"Professor Dumbledore, Potter has had a . . . well, a nightmare,” said Professor McGonagall. “He says . . ."
"It wasn’t a nightmare,"
"Very well, then, Potter, you tell the headmaster about it."
"I . . . well, I was asleep . . .” said Harry and even in his terror and his desperation to make Dumbledore understand he felt slightly irritated that the headmaster was not looking at him, but examining his own interlocked fingers. “But it wasn’t an ordinary dream . . . it was real. . . . I saw it happen . . .” He took a deep breath, “Ron’s dad — Mr. Weasley — has been attacked by a giant snake."
"How did you see this?"
"Well . . . I don’t know,” said Harry, rather angrily — what did it matter? “Inside my head, I suppose —"
"You misunderstand me,” said Dumbledore, still in the same calm tone. “I mean . . . can you remember — er — where you were positioned as you watched this attack happen? Were you perhaps standing beside the victim, or else looking down on the scene from above?"
"I was the snake,” he said. “I saw it all from the snake’s point of view . . ."
"Is Arthur seriously injured?"
"Yes,"
"Everard?” he said sharply. “And you too, Dilys!"
"You were listening?"
"Naturally."
"The man has red hair and glasses,” said Dumbledore. “Everard, you will need to raise the alarm, make sure he is found by the right people —"
"Everard and Dilys were two of Hogwarts’s most celebrated Heads,” Dumbledore said, now sweeping around Harry, Ron, and Professor McGonagall and approaching the magnificent sleeping bird on his perch beside the door. “Their renown is such that both have portraits hanging in other important Wizarding institutions. As they are free to move between their own portraits they can tell us what may be happening elsewhere . . ."
"But Mr. Weasley could be anywhere!"
"Please sit down, all three of you,” said Dumbledore, as though Harry had not spoken. “Everard and Dilys may not be back for several minutes. . . . Professor McGonagall, if you could draw up extra chairs . . ."
"We will need,” said Dumbledore very quietly to the bird, “a warning."
"Naturally, naturally,” murmured Dumbledore apparently to himself, still observing the stream of smoke without the slightest sign of surprise. “But in essence divided?"
"Dumbledore!"
"What news?"
"I yelled until someone came running,” said the wizard, who was mopping his brow on the curtain behind him, “said I’d heard something moving downstairs — they weren’t sure whether to believe me but went down to check — you know there are no portraits down there to watch from. Anyway, they carried him up a few minutes later. He doesn’t look good, he’s covered in blood, I ran along to Elfrida Cragg’s portrait to get a good view as they left —"
"Good,” said Dumbledore as Ron made a convulsive movement, “I take it Dilys will have seen him arrive, then —"
"Yes, they’ve taken him to St. Mungo’s, Dumbledore. . . . They carried him past under my portrait. . . . He looks bad . . ."
"Thank you,"
"Minerva, I need you to go and wake the other Weasley children."
"Of course . . ."
"And Dumbledore — what about Molly?"
"That will be a job for Fawkes when he has finished keeping a lookout for anybody approaching,” said Dumbledore. “But she may already know . . . that excellent clock of hers . . ."
"mortal peril."
"Portus"
"Phineas. Phineas."
"Phineas! Phineas! PHINEAS!"
"Did someone call?"
"I need you to visit your other portrait again, Phineas,” said Dumbledore. “I’ve got another message."
"Visit my other portrait?” said Phineas in a reedy voice, giving a long, fake yawn (his eyes traveling around the room and focusing upon Harry). “Oh no, Dumbledore, I am too tired tonight . . ."
"Insubordination, sir!” roared a corpulent, red-nosed wizard, brandishing his fists. “Dereliction of duty!"
"We are honor-bound to give service to the present headmaster of Hogwarts!” cried a frail-looking old wizard whom Harry recognized as Dumbledore’s predecessor, Armando Dippet. “Shame on you, Phineas!"
"Shall I persuade him, Dumbledore?"
"Oh, very well,” said the wizard called Phineas, eyeing this wand slightly apprehensively, “though he may well have destroyed my picture by now, he’s done most of the family —"
"Sirius knows not to destroy your portrait,” said Dumbledore, and Harry realized immediately where he had heard Phineas’s voice before: issuing from the apparently empty frame in his bedroom in Grimmauld Place. “You are to give him the message that Arthur Weasley has been gravely injured and that his wife, children, and Harry Potter will be arriving at his house shortly. Do you understand?"
"Arthur Weasley, injured, wife and children and Harry Potter coming to stay,” recited Phineas in a bored voice. “Yes, yes . . . very well . . ."
"Harry — what’s going on?” asked Ginny, who looked frightened. “Professor McGonagall says you saw Dad hurt —"
"Your father has been injured in the course of his work for the Order of the Phoenix,” said Dumbledore before Harry could speak. “He has been taken to St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. I am sending you back to Sirius’s house, which is much more convenient for the hospital than the Burrow. You will meet your mother there."
"How’re we going?” asked Fred, looking shaken. “Floo powder?"
"No,” said Dumbledore, “Floo powder is not safe at the moment, the Network is being watched. You will be taking a Portkey.” He indicated the old kettle lying innocently on his desk. “We are just waiting for Phineas Nigellus to report back. . . . I wish to be sure that the coast is clear before sending you —"
"It is Fawkes’s warning,” said Dumbledore, catching the feather as it fell. “She must know you’re out of your beds. . . . Minerva, go and head her off — tell her any story —"
"He says he’ll be delighted,” said a bored voice behind Dumbledore; the wizard called Phineas had reappeared in front of his Slytherin banner. “My great-great-grandson has always had odd taste in houseguests . . ."
"Come here, then,” Dumbledore said to Harry and the Weasleys. “And quickly, before anyone else joins us . . ."
"You have all used a Portkey before?” asked Dumbledore, and they nodded, each reaching out to touch some part of the blackened kettle. “Good. On the count of three then . . . one . . . two . . ."
"three,"
". . . three."
"Back again, the blood traitor brats, is it true their father’s dying . . . ?"
"OUT!"
"What’s going on?” he said, stretching out a hand to help Ginny up. “Phineas Nigellus said Arthur’s been badly injured —"
"Ask Harry,"
"Yeah, I want to hear this for myself,"
"It was —” Harry began; this was even worse than telling McGonagall and Dumbledore. “I had a — a kind of — vision . . ."
"Is Mum here?"
"She probably doesn’t even know what’s happened yet,” said Sirius. “The important thing was to get you away before Umbridge could interfere. I expect Dumbledore’s letting Molly know now."
"We’ve got to go to St. Mungo’s,” said Ginny urgently. She looked around at her brothers; they were of course still in their pajamas. “Sirius, can you lend us cloaks or anything — ?"
"Hang on, you can’t go tearing off to St. Mungo’s!"
"’Course we can go to St. Mungo’s if we want,” said Fred, with a mulish expression, “he’s our dad!"
"And how are you going to explain how you knew Arthur was attacked before the hospital even let his wife know?"
"What does that matter?"
"It matters because we don’t want to draw attention to the fact that Harry is having visions of things that are happening hundreds of miles away!” said Sirius angrily. “Have you any idea what the Ministry would make of that information?"
"Somebody else could have told us. . . . We could have heard it somewhere other than Harry . . ."
"Like who?” said Sirius impatiently. “Listen, your dad’s been hurt while on duty for the Order and the circumstances are fishy enough without his children knowing about it seconds after it happened, you could seriously damage the Order’s —"
"We don’t care about the dumb Order!"
"It’s our dad dying we’re talking about!"
"Your father knew what he was getting into, and he won’t thank you for messing things up for the Order!” said Sirius angrily in his turn. “This is how it is — this is why you’re not in the Order — you don’t understand — there are things worth dying for!"
"Easy for you to say, stuck here!” bellowed Fred. “I don’t see you risking your neck!"
"I know it’s hard, but we’ve all got to act as though we don’t know anything yet. We’ve got to stay put, at least until we hear from your mother, all right?"
"That’s right,” said Sirius encouragingly, “come on, let’s all . . . let’s all have a drink while we’re waiting. Accio Butterbeer!"
"Fawkes!” said Sirius at once, snatching up the parchment. “That’s not Dumbledore’s writing — it must be a message from your mother — here —"
"Dad is still alive. I am setting out for St. Mungo’s now. Stay where you are. I will send news as soon as I can. Mum."
"Still alive . . .” he said slowly. “But that makes it sound . . ."
"He’s going to be all right,” she said, her voice weak with tiredness. “He’s sleeping. We can all go and see him later. Bill’s sitting with him now, he’s going to take the morning off work."
"Breakfast!” said Sirius loudly and joyfully, jumping to his feet. “Where’s that accursed house-elf? Kreacher! KREACHER!"
"Oh, forget it, then,” muttered Sirius, counting the people in front of him. “So it’s breakfast for — let’s see — seven . . . Bacon and eggs, I think, and some tea, and toast —"
"I don’t know what would have happened if it hadn’t been for you, Harry,” she said in a muffled voice. “They might not have found Arthur for hours, and then it would have been too late, but thanks to you he’s alive and Dumbledore’s been able to think up a good cover story for Arthur being where he was, you’ve no idea what trouble he would have been in otherwise, look at poor Sturgis . . ."
"Oh, Sirius, I’m so grateful. . . . They think he’ll be there a little while and it would be wonderful to be nearer . . . Of course, that might mean we’re here for Christmas . . ."
"The more the merrier!"
"Sirius,” Harry muttered, unable to stand it a moment longer. “Can I have a quick word? Er — now?"
"Did you tell Dumbledore this?"
"Yes,” said Harry impatiently, “but he didn’t tell me what it meant. Well, he doesn’t tell me anything anymore . . ."
"I’m sure he would have told you if it was anything to worry about,"
"But that’s not all,” said Harry in a voice only a little above a whisper. “Sirius, I . . . I think I’m going mad. . . . Back in Dumbledore’s office, just before we took the Portkey . . . for a couple of seconds there I thought I was a snake, I felt like one — my scar really hurt when I was looking at Dumbledore — Sirius, I wanted to attack him —"
"It must have been the aftermath of the vision, that’s all,” said Sirius. “You were still thinking of the dream or whatever it was and —"
"It wasn’t that,” said Harry, shaking his head. “It was like something rose up inside me, like there’s a snake inside me —"
"You need to sleep,” said Sirius firmly. “You’re going to have breakfast and then go upstairs to bed, and then you can go and see Arthur after lunch with the others. You’re in shock, Harry; you’re blaming yourself for something you only witnessed, and it’s lucky you did witness it or Arthur might have died. Just stop worrying . . ."
"There isn’t any Seer blood in your family, is there?"
"No,"
"No,” said Tonks musingly, “no, I suppose it’s not really prophecy you’re doing, is it? I mean, you’re not seeing the future, you’re seeing the present. . . . It’s odd, isn’t it? Useful, though . . ."
"Not far from here,” grunted Moody as they stepped out into the wintry air on a broad store-lined street packed with Christmas shoppers. He pushed Harry a little ahead of him and stumped along just behind; Harry knew the eye was rolling in all directions under the tilted hat. “Wasn’t easy to find a good location for a hospital. Nowhere in Diagon Alley was big enough and we couldn’t have it underground like the Ministry — unhealthy. In the end they managed to get hold of a building up here. Theory was sick wizards could come and go and just blend in with the crowd . . ."
"Here we go,"
"It’s never open, that place . . ."
"Right,” said Tonks, beckoning them forward to a window displaying nothing but a particularly ugly female dummy whose false eyelashes were hanging off and who was modeling a green nylon pinafore dress. “Everybody ready?"
"Wotcher . . . We’re here to see Arthur Weasley."
"C’mon,"
"Are they doctors?"
"Doctors?” said Ron, looking startled. “Those Muggle nutters that cut people up? Nah, they’re Healers."
"Over here!"
"It’s these — ouch — shoes my brother gave me — ow — they’re eating my — OUCH — feet — look at them, there must be some kind of — AARGH — jinx on them and I can’t — AAAAARGH — get them off —"
"The shoes don’t prevent you reading, do they?” said the blonde witch irritably, pointing at a large sign to the left of her desk. “You want Spell Damage, fourth floor. Just like it says on the floor guide. Next!"
"I’m here to see Broderick Bode!"
"Ward forty-nine, but I’m afraid you’re wasting your time,” said the witch dismissively. “He’s completely addled, you know, still thinks he’s a teapot. . . . Next!"
"Fourth floor,” said the witch in a bored voice, without asking, and the man disappeared through the double doors beside the desk, holding his daughter like an oddly shaped balloon. “Next!"
"Hello,” she said. “My husband, Arthur Weasley, was supposed to be moved to a different ward this morning, could you tell us — ?"
"Arthur Weasley?” said the witch, running her finger down a long list in front of her. “Yes, first floor, second door on the right, Dai Llewellyn ward."
"Thank you,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Come on, you lot."
"Creature-Induced Injuries” corridor, where the second door on the right bore the words “DANGEROUS"
"We’ll wait outside, Molly,” Tonks said. “Arthur won’t want too many visitors at once. . . . It ought to be just the family first."
"Don’t be silly, Harry, Arthur wants to thank you . . ."
"Hello!” he called, throwing the Prophet aside. “Bill just left, Molly, had to get back to work, but he says he’ll drop in on you later . . ."
"How are you, Arthur?” asked Mrs. Weasley, bending down to kiss his cheek and looking anxiously into his face. “You’re still looking a bit peaky . . ."
"I feel absolutely fine,” said Mr. Weasley brightly, holding out his good arm to give Ginny a hug. “If they could only take the bandages off, I’d be fit to go home."
"Why can’t they take them off, Dad?"
"Well, I start bleeding like mad every time they try,” said Mr. Weasley cheerfully, reaching across for his wand, which lay on his bedside cabinet, and waving it so that six extra chairs appeared at his bedside to seat them all. “It seems there was some rather unusual kind of poison in that snake’s fangs that keeps wounds open. . . . They’re sure they’ll find an antidote, though, they say they’ve had much worse cases than mine, and in the meantime I just have to keep taking a Blood-Replenishing Potion every hour. But that fellow over there,” he said, dropping his voice and nodding toward the bed opposite in which a man lay looking green and sickly and staring at the ceiling. “Bitten by a werewolf, poor chap. No cure at all."
"A werewolf?” whispered Mrs. Weasley, looking alarmed. “Is he safe in a public ward? Shouldn’t he be in a private room?"
"It’s two weeks till full moon,” Mr. Weasley reminded her quietly. “They’ve been talking to him this morning, the Healers, you know, trying to persuade him he’ll be able to lead an almost normal life. I said to him — didn’t mention names, of course — but I said I knew a werewolf personally, very nice man, who finds the condition quite easy to manage . . ."
"What did he say?"
"Said he’d give me another bite if I didn’t shut up,” said Mr. Weasley sadly. “And that woman over there,” he indicated the only other occupied bed, which was right beside the door, “won’t tell the Healers what bit her, which makes us all think it must have been something she was handling illegally. Whatever it was took a real chunk out of her leg, very nasty smell when they take off the dressings."
"So, you going to tell us what happened, Dad?"
"Well, you already know, don’t you?” said Mr. Weasley, with a significant smile at Harry. “It’s very simple — I’d had a very long day, dozed off, got sneaked up on, and bitten."
"Is it in the Prophet, you being attacked?"
"No, of course not,” said Mr. Weasley, with a slightly bitter smile, “the Ministry wouldn’t want everyone to know a dirty great serpent got —"
"Arthur!"
"— got — er — me,"
"So where were you when it happened, Dad?"
"That’s my business,” said Mr. Weasley, though with a small smile. He snatched up the Daily Prophet, shook it open again and said, “I was just reading about Willy Widdershins’s arrest when you arrived. You know Willy turned out to be behind those regurgitating toilets last summer? One of his jinxes backfired, the toilet exploded, and they found him lying unconscious in the wreckage covered from head to foot in —"
"When you say you were ‘on duty,’” Fred interrupted in a low voice, “what were you doing?"
"You heard your father,” whispered Mrs. Weasley, “we are not discussing this here! Go on about Willy Widdershins, Arthur —"
"Well, don’t ask me how, but he actually got off on the toilet charge,” said Mr. Weasley grimly. “I can only suppose gold changed hands —"
"You were guarding it, weren’t you?” said George quietly. “The weapon? The thing You-Know-Who’s after?"
"George, be quiet!"
"Anyway,” said Mr. Weasley in a raised voice, “this time Willy’s been caught selling biting doorknobs to Muggles, and I don’t think he’ll be able to worm his way out of it because according to this article, two Muggles have lost fingers and are now in St. Mungo’s for emergency bone regrowth and memory modification. Just think of it, Muggles in St. Mungo’s! I wonder which ward they’re in?"
"Didn’t you say You-Know-Who’s got a snake, Harry?” asked Fred, looking at his father for a reaction. “A massive one? You saw it the night he returned, didn’t you?"
"That’s enough,” said Mrs. Weasley crossly. “Mad-Eye and Tonks are outside, Arthur, they want to come and see you. And you lot can wait outside,” she added to her children and Harry. “You can come and say good-bye afterward. Go on . . ."
"Fine,” he said coolly, rummaging in his pockets, “be like that. Don’t tell us anything."
"Looking for these?"
"You read my mind,” said Fred, grinning. “Let’s see if St. Mungo’s puts Imperturbable Charms on its ward doors, shall we?"
"Go on, Harry, take it! You saved Dad’s life, if anyone’s got the right to eavesdrop on him it’s you . . ."
"Okay, go!"
". . . they searched the whole area but they couldn’t find the snake anywhere, it just seems to have vanished after it attacked you, Arthur. . . . But You-Know-Who can’t have expected a snake to get in, can he?"
"I reckon he sent it as a lookout,” growled Moody, “’cause he’s not had any luck so far, has he? No, I reckon he’s trying to get a clearer picture of what he’s facing and if Arthur hadn’t been there the beast would’ve had much more time to look around. So Potter says he saw it all happen?"
"Yes,” said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded rather uneasy. “You know, Dumbledore seems almost to have been waiting for Harry to see something like this . . ."
"Yeah, well,” said Moody, “there’s something funny about the Potter kid, we all know that."
"Dumbledore seemed worried about Harry when I spoke to him this morning,"
"’Course he’s worried,” growled Moody. “The boy’s seeing things from inside You-Know-Who’s snake. . . . Obviously, Potter doesn’t realize what that means, but if You-Know-Who’s possessing him —"
"What’s he after apart from followers?"
"Stuff he can only get by stealth . . . like a weapon. Something he didn’t have last time."
"Are you all right, Harry, dear?” whispered Mrs. Weasley, leaning across Ginny to speak to him as the train rattled along through its dark tunnel. “You don’t look very well. Are you feeling sick?"
"Harry, dear, are you sure you’re all right?” said Mrs. Weasley in a worried voice, as they walked around the unkempt patch of grass in the middle of Grimmauld Place. “You look ever so pale. . . . Are you sure you slept this morning? You go upstairs to bed right now, and you can have a couple of hours’ sleep before dinner, all right?"
"Running away, are we?"
"Not running away, no,"
"I thought,” said Phineas Nigellus, stroking his pointed beard, “that to belong in Gryffindor House you were supposed to be brave? It looks to me as though you would have been better off in my own House. We Slytherins are brave, yes, but not stupid. For instance, given the choice, we will always choose to save our own necks."
"It’s not my own neck I’m saving,"
"Oh I see,” said Phineas Nigellus, still stroking his beard. “This is no cowardly flight — you are being noble."
"I have a message for you from Albus Dumbledore."
"What is it?"
"Stay where you are."
"I haven’t moved!” said Harry, his hand still upon the doorknob. “So what’s the message?"
"I have just given it to you, dolt,” said Phineas Nigellus smoothly. “Dumbledore says, ‘Stay where you are.’"
"Why?” said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his trunk. “Why does he want me to stay? What else did he say?"
"Nothing whatsoever,"
"So that’s it, is it?” he said loudly. “Stay there? That’s all anyone could tell me after I got attacked by those dementors too! Just stay put while the grown-ups sort it out, Harry! We won’t bother telling you anything, though, because your tiny little brain might not be able to cope with it!"
"You know,” said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly than Harry, “this is precisely why I loathed being a teacher! Young people are so infernally convinced that they are absolutely right about everything. Has it not occurred to you, my poor puffed-up popinjay, that there might be an excellent reason why the headmaster of Hogwarts is not confiding every tiny detail of his plans to you? Have you never paused, while feeling hard-done-by, to note that following Dumbledore’s orders has never yet led you into harm? No. No, like all young people, you are quite sure that you alone feel and think, you alone recognize danger, you alone are the only one clever enough to realize what the Dark Lord may be planning . . ."
"He is planning something to do with me, then?"
"Did I say that?” said Phineas Nigellus, idly examining his silk gloves. “Now, if you will excuse me, I have better things to do than to listen to adolescent agonizing. . . . Good day to you . . ."
"Fine, go then!” Harry bellowed at the empty frame. “And tell Dumbledore thanks for nothing!"
"Harry,” said Ron’s voice, from far, far away, “Mum says dinner’s ready, but she’ll save you something if you want to stay in bed . . ."
"I know you’re in there,” said Hermione’s voice. “Will you please come out? I want to talk to you."
"What are you doing here?” Harry asked her, pulling open the door, as Buckbeak resumed his scratching at the straw-strewn floor for any fragments of rat he might have dropped. “I thought you were skiing with your mum and dad."
"Well, to tell the truth, skiing’s not really my thing,” said Hermione. “So I’ve come for Christmas.” There was snow in her hair and her face was pink with cold. “But don’t tell Ron that, I told him it’s really good because he kept laughing so much. Anyway, Mum and Dad are a bit disappointed, but I’ve told them that everyone who’s serious about the exams is staying at Hogwarts to study. They want me to do well, they’ll understand. Anyway,” she said briskly, “let’s go to your bedroom, Ron’s mum’s lit a fire in there and she’s sent up sandwiches."
"I came on the Knight Bus,” said Hermione airily, pulling off her jacket before Harry had time to speak. “Dumbledore told me what had happened first thing yesterday morning, but I had to wait for term to end officially before setting off. Umbridge is already livid that you lot disappeared right under her nose, even though Dumbledore told her Mr. Weasley was in St. Mungo’s, and he’d given you all permission to visit. So . . ."
"How’re you feeling?"
"Fine,"
"Oh, don’t lie, Harry,” she said impatiently. “Ron and Ginny say you’ve been hiding from everyone since you got back from St. Mungo’s."
"They do, do they?"
"Well, you have!” she said. “And you won’t look at any of us!"
"It’s you lot who won’t look at me!"
"Maybe you’re taking it in turns to look and keep missing each other,"
"Very funny,"
"Oh, stop feeling all misunderstood,” said Hermione sharply. “Look, the others have told me what you overheard last night on the Extendable Ears —"
"Yeah?” growled Harry, his hands deep in his pockets as he watched the snow now falling thickly outside. “All been talking about me, have you? Well, I’m getting used to it . . ."
"We wanted to talk to you, Harry,” said Ginny, “but as you’ve been hiding ever since we got back —"
"I didn’t want anyone to talk to me,"
"Well, that was a bit stupid of you,” said Ginny angrily, “seeing as you don’t know anyone but me who’s been possessed by You-Know-Who, and I can tell you how it feels."
"I forgot,"
"Lucky you,"
"I’m sorry,” Harry said, and he meant it. “So . . . so do you think I’m being possessed, then?"
"Well, can you remember everything you’ve been doing?” Ginny asked. “Are there big blank periods where you don’t know what you’ve been up to?"
"No,"
"Then You-Know-Who hasn’t ever possessed you,” said Ginny simply. “When he did it to me, I couldn’t remember what I’d been doing for hours at a time. I’d find myself somewhere and not know how I got there."
"That dream I had about your dad and the snake, though —"
"Harry, you’ve had these dreams before,” Hermione said. “You had flashes of what Voldemort was up to last year."
"This was different,” said Harry, shaking his head. “I was inside that snake. It was like I was the snake. . . . What if Voldemort somehow transported me to London — ?"
"One day,” said Hermione, sounding thoroughly exasperated, “you’ll read Hogwarts: A History, and perhaps that will remind you that you can’t Apparate or Disapparate inside Hogwarts. Even Voldemort couldn’t just make you fly out of your dormitory, Harry."
"You didn’t leave your bed, mate,” said Ron. “I saw you thrashing around in your sleep about a minute before we could wake you up . . ."
"God Rest Ye Merry, Hippogriffs"
"Good haul this year,” he informed Harry through a cloud of paper. “Thanks for the Broom Compass, it’s excellent, beats Hermione’s — she’s got me a homework planner —"
"Do it today or later you’ll pay!"
"Merry Christmas,” said George. “Don’t go downstairs for a bit."
"Why not?"
"Mum’s crying again,” said Fred heavily. “Percy sent back his Christmas jumper."
"Without a note,” added George. “Hasn’t asked how Dad is or visited him or anything . . ."
"We tried to comfort her,” said Fred, moving around the bed to look at Harry’s portrait. “Told her Percy’s nothing more than a humongous pile of rat droppings —"
"— didn’t work,” said George, helping himself to a Chocolate Frog. “So Lupin took over. Best let him cheer her up before we go down for breakfast, I reckon."
"What’s that supposed to be anyway?” asked Fred, squinting at Dobby’s painting. “Looks like a gibbon with two black eyes."
"It’s Harry!” said George, pointing at the back of the picture. “Says so on the back!"
"Good likeness,” said Fred, grinning. Harry threw his new homework diary at him; it hit the wall opposite and fell to the floor where it said happily, “If you’ve dotted the i’s and crossed the t’s then you may do whatever you please!"
"Merry Christmas” to each other. On their way downstairs they met Hermione. “Thanks for the book, Harry!” she said happily. “I’ve been wanting that New Theory of Numerology for ages! And that perfume is really unusual, Ron."
"No problem,” said Ron. “Who’s that for anyway?"
"Kreacher,"
"It had better not be clothes!” said Ron warningly. “You know what Sirius said, Kreacher knows too much, we can’t set him free!"
"It isn’t clothes,” said Hermione, “although if I had my way I’d certainly give him something to wear other than that filthy old rag. No, it’s a patchwork quilt, I thought it would brighten up his bedroom."
"What bedroom?"
"Well, Sirius says it’s not so much a bedroom, more a kind of — den,” said Hermione. “Apparently he sleeps under the boiler in that cupboard off the kitchen."
"So, this is Kreacher’s bedroom?"
"Yes,” said Hermione, now sounding a little nervous. “Er . . . I think we’d better knock . . ."
"He must be sneaking around upstairs,” he said, and without further ado pulled open the door. “Urgh."
"I think I’ll just leave his present here,” said Hermione, laying the package neatly in the middle of the depression in the rags and blankets and closing the door quietly. “He’ll find it later, that’ll be fine . . ."
"Come to think of it,” said Sirius, emerging from the pantry carrying a large turkey as they closed the cupboard door, “has anyone actually seen Kreacher lately?"
"I haven’t seen him since the night we came back here,” said Harry. “You were ordering him out of the kitchen."
"Yeah . . .” said Sirius, frowning. “You know, I think that’s the last time I saw him, too. . . . He must be hiding upstairs somewhere . . ."
"He couldn’t have left, could he?” said Harry. “I mean, when you said ‘out,’ maybe he thought you meant, get out of the house?"
"No, no, house-elves can’t leave unless they’re given clothes, they’re tied to their family’s house,"
"They can leave the house if they really want to,” Harry contradicted him. “Dobby did, he left the Malfoys’ to give me warnings three years ago. He had to punish himself afterward, but he still managed it."
"I’ll look for him later, I expect I’ll find him upstairs crying his eyes out over my mother’s old bloomers or something. . . . Of course, he might have crawled into the airing cupboard and died. . . . But I mustn’t get my hopes up . . ."
"borrow"
"Family argument, eh?” smirked the blonde witch behind the desk. “You’re the third I’ve seen today . . . Spell Damage, fourth floor . . ."
"Everything all right, Arthur?"
"Fine, fine,” said Mr. Weasley, a little too heartily. “You — er — haven’t seen Healer Smethwyck, have you?"
"No,” said Mrs. Weasley suspiciously, “why?"
"Nothing, nothing,” said Mr. Weasley airily, starting to unwrap his pile of gifts. “Well, everyone had a good day? What did you all get for Christmas? Oh, Harry — this is absolutely wonderful —"
"Arthur,” she said, with a snap in her voice like a mousetrap, “you’ve had your bandages changed. Why have you had your bandages changed a day early, Arthur? They told me they wouldn’t need doing until tomorrow."
"What?” said Mr. Weasley, looking rather frightened and pulling the bed covers higher up his chest. “No, no — it’s nothing — it’s — I —"
"Well — now don’t get upset, Molly, but Augustus Pye had an idea. . . . He’s the Trainee Healer, you know, lovely young chap and very interested in . . . um . . . complementary medicine. . . . I mean, some of these old Muggle remedies . . . well, they’re called stitches, Molly, and they work very well on — on Muggle wounds —"
"Do you mean to tell me,” said Mrs. Weasley, her voice growing louder with every word and apparently unaware that her fellow visitors were scurrying for cover, “that you have been messing about with Muggle remedies?"
"Not messing about, Molly, dear,” said Mr. Weasley imploringly. “It was just — just something Pye and I thought we’d try — only, most unfortunately — well, with these particular kinds of wounds — it doesn’t seem to work as well as we’d hoped —"
"Meaning?"
"Well . . . well, I don’t know whether you know what — what stitches are?"
"It sounds as though you’ve been trying to sew your skin back together,” said Mrs. Weasley with a snort of mirthless laughter, “but even you, Arthur, wouldn’t be that stupid —"
"I fancy a cup of tea too,"
"WHAT DO YOU MEAN, THAT’S THE GENERAL IDEA?"
"Typical Dad,” said Ginny, shaking her head as they set off up the corridor. “Stitches . . . I ask you . . ."
"Well, you know, they do work well on non-magical wounds,” said Hermione fairly. “I suppose something in that snake’s venom dissolves them or something. . . . I wonder where the tearoom is?"
"Fifth floor,"
"And what’s that supposed to be?"
"’Tis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young master, that will leave you pockmarked and more gruesome even than you are now —"
"Watch who you’re calling gruesome!"
"The only remedy is to take the liver of a toad, bind it tight about your throat, stand naked by the full moon in a barrel of eels’ eyes —"
"I have not got spattergroit!"
"But the unsightly blemishes upon your visage, young master —"
"They’re freckles!” said Ron furiously. “Now get back in your own picture and leave me alone!"
"What floor’s this?"
"I think it’s the fifth,"
"Nah, it’s the fourth,” said Harry, “one more —"
"Blimey!"
"Oh my goodness,” said Hermione suddenly, sounding breathless. “Professor Lockhart!"
"Well, hello there!” he said. “I expect you’d like my autograph, would you?"
"Hasn’t changed much, has he?"
"Er — how are you, Professor?"
"I’m very well indeed, thank you!” said Lockhart exuberantly, pulling a rather battered peacock-feather quill from his pocket. “Now, how many autographs would you like? I can do joined-up writing now, you know!"
"Er — we don’t want any at the moment, thanks,” said Ron, raising his eyebrows at Harry, who asked, “Professor, should you be wandering around the corridors? Shouldn’t you be in a ward?"
"Haven’t we met?"
"Er . . . yeah, we have,” said Harry. “You used to teach us at Hogwarts, remember?"
"Teach?” repeated Lockhart, looking faintly unsettled. “Me? Did I?"
"Taught you everything you know, I expect, did I? Well, how about those autographs, then? Shall we say a round dozen, you can give them to all your little friends then and nobody will be left out!"
"Gilderoy, you naughty boy, where have you wandered off to?"
"Oh Gilderoy, you’ve got visitors! How lovely, and on Christmas Day too! Do you know, he never gets visitors, poor lamb, and I can’t think why, he’s such a sweetie, aren’t you?"
"We’re doing autographs!” Gilderoy told the Healer with another glittering smile. “They want loads of them, won’t take no for an answer! I just hope we’ve got enough photographs!"
"Listen to him,” said the Healer, taking Lockhart’s arm and beaming fondly at him as though he were a precocious two-year-old. “He was rather well known a few years ago; we very much hope that this liking for giving autographs is a sign that his memory might be coming back a little bit. Will you step this way? He’s in a closed ward, you know, he must have slipped out while I was bringing in the Christmas presents, the door’s usually kept locked . . . not that he’s dangerous! But,” she lowered her voice to a whisper, “bit of a danger to himself, bless him. . . . Doesn’t know who he is, you see, wanders off and can’t remember how to get back. . . . It is nice of you to have come to see him —"
"Er,” said Ron, gesturing uselessly at the floor above, “actually, we were just — er —"
"going to have a cup of tea"
"Let’s not stay long,"
"Alohomora."
"This is our long-term resident ward,” she informed Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny in a low voice. “For permanent spell damage, you know. Of course, with intensive remedial potions and charms and a bit of luck, we can produce some improvement. . . . Gilderoy does seem to be getting back some sense of himself, and we’ve seen a real improvement in Mr. Bode, he seems to be regaining the power of speech very well, though he isn’t speaking any language we recognize yet. . . . Well, I must finish giving out the Christmas presents, I’ll leave you all to chat . . ."
"You can put them in envelopes,” he said to Ginny, throwing the signed pictures into her lap one by one as he finished them. “I am not forgotten, you know, no, I still receive a very great deal of fan mail. . . . Gladys Gudgeon writes weekly. . . . I just wish I knew why . . .” He paused, looking faintly puzzled, then beamed again and returned to his signing with renewed vigor. “I suspect it is simply my good looks . . ."
"Here you are, Agnes,” said the Healer brightly to the furry-faced woman, handing her a small pile of Christmas presents. “See, not forgotten, are you? And your son’s sent an owl to say he’s visiting tonight, so that’s nice, isn’t it?"
"And look, Broderick, you’ve been sent a potted plant and a lovely calendar with a different fancy hippogriff for each month, they’ll brighten things up, won’t they?” said the Healer, bustling along to the mumbling man, setting a rather ugly plant with long, swaying tentacles on the bedside cabinet and fixing the calendar to the wall with her wand. “And — oh, Mrs. Longbottom, are you leaving already?"
"Longbottom” too, and before Harry could stop him had called, “Neville!"
"It’s us, Neville!” said Ron brightly, getting to his feet. “Have you seen? Lockhart’s here! Who’ve you been visiting?"
"Friends of yours, Neville, dear?"
"Ah, yes,” said his grandmother, peering at Harry and sticking out a shriveled, clawlike hand for him to shake. “Yes, yes, I know who you are, of course. Neville speaks most highly of you."
"Er — thanks,"
"And you two are clearly Weasleys,” Mrs. Longbottom continued, proffering her hand regally to Ron and Ginny in turn. “Yes, I know your parents — not well, of course — but fine people, fine people . . . and you must be Hermione Granger?"
"Yes, Neville’s told me all about you. Helped him out of a few sticky spots, haven’t you? He’s a good boy,” she said, casting a sternly appraising look down her rather bony nose at Neville, “but he hasn’t got his father’s talent, I’m afraid to say . . ."
"What?” said Ron, looking amazed (Harry wanted to stamp on Ron’s foot, but that sort of thing was much harder to bring off unnoticed when you were wearing jeans rather than robes). “Is that your dad down the end, Neville?"
"What’s this?” said Mrs. Longbottom sharply. “Haven’t you told your friends about your parents, Neville?"
"Well, it’s nothing to be ashamed of!” said Mrs. Longbottom angrily. “You should be proud, Neville, proud! They didn’t give their health and their sanity so their only son would be ashamed of them, you know!"
"I’m not ashamed,"
"Well, you’ve got a funny way of showing it!” said Mrs. Longbottom. “My son and his wife,” she said, turning haughtily to Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, “were tortured into insanity by You-Know-Who’s followers."
"They were Aurors, you know, and very well respected within the Wizarding community,” Mrs. Longbottom went on. “Highly gifted, the pair of them. I — yes, Alice dear, what is it?"
"Again?” said Mrs. Longbottom, sounding slightly weary. “Very well, Alice dear, very well — Neville, take it, whatever it is . . ."
"Very nice, dear,” said Neville’s grandmother in a falsely cheery voice, patting his mother on the shoulder. But Neville said quietly, “Thanks Mum."
"Well, we’d better get back,” sighed Mrs. Longbottom, drawing on long green gloves. “Very nice to have met you all. Neville, put that wrapper in the bin, she must have given you enough of them to paper your bedroom by now . . ."
"I never knew,"
"Nor did I,"
"Nor me,"
"I did,” he said glumly. “Dumbledore told me but I promised I wouldn’t mention it . . . that’s what Bellatrix Lestrange got sent to Azkaban for, using the Cruciatus Curse on Neville’s parents until they lost their minds."
"Bellatrix Lestrange did that?” whispered Hermione, horrified. “That woman Kreacher’s got a photo of in his den?"
"Look, I didn’t learn joined-up writing for nothing, you know!"
"fits of the sullens,"
"Harry dear,” said Mrs. Weasley, poking her head into his and Ron’s bedroom, where the pair of them were playing wizard chess watched by Hermione, Ginny, and Crookshanks, “could you come down to the kitchen? Professor Snape would like a word with you."
"Squash him — squash him, he’s only a pawn, you idiot — sorry, Mrs. Weasley, what did you say?"
"Professor Snape, dear. In the kitchen. He’d like a word."
"Snape?"
"Professor Snape, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley reprovingly. “Now come on, quickly, he says he can’t stay long."
"What’s he want with you?"
"You haven’t done anything, have you?"
"No!"
"Er,"
"Sit down, Potter."
"You know,” said Sirius loudly, leaning back on his rear chair legs and speaking to the ceiling, “I think I’d prefer it if you didn’t give orders here, Snape. It’s my house, you see."
"I was supposed to see you alone, Potter,” said Snape, the familiar sneer curling his mouth, “but Black —"
"I’m his godfather,"
"I am here on Dumbledore’s orders,” said Snape, whose voice, by contrast, was becoming more and more quietly waspish, “but by all means stay, Black, I know you like to feel . . . involved."
"What’s that supposed to mean?"
"Merely that I am sure you must feel — ah — frustrated by the fact that you can do nothing useful,” Snape laid a delicate stress on the word, “for the Order."
"The headmaster has sent me to tell you, Potter, that it is his wish for you to study Occlumency this term."
"Study what?"
"Occlumency, Potter. The magical defense of the mind against external penetration. An obscure branch of magic, but a highly useful one."
"Why do I have to study Occlu — thing?"
"Because the headmaster thinks it a good idea,” said Snape smoothly. “You will receive private lessons once a week, but you will not tell anybody what you are doing, least of all Dolores Umbridge. You understand?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “Who’s going to be teaching me?"
"I am,"
"Why can’t Dumbledore teach Harry?” asked Sirius aggressively. “Why you?"
"I suppose because it is a headmaster’s privilege to delegate less enjoyable tasks,” said Snape silkily. “I assure you I did not beg for the job.” He got to his feet. “I will expect you at six o’clock on Monday evening, Potter. My office. If anybody asks, you are taking Remedial Potions. Nobody who has seen you in my classes could deny you need them."
"Wait a moment,"
"I am in rather a hurry, Black . . . unlike you, I do not have unlimited leisure time . . ."
"I’ll get to the point, then,” said Sirius, standing up. He was rather taller than Snape who, Harry noticed, had balled his fist in the pocket of his cloak over what Harry was sure was the handle of his wand. “If I hear you’re using these Occlumency lessons to give Harry a hard time, you’ll have me to answer to."
"How touching,” Snape sneered. “But surely you have noticed that Potter is very like his father?"
"Yes, I have,"
"Well then, you’ll know he’s so arrogant that criticism simply bounces off him,"
"Sirius!"
"I’ve warned you, Snivellus,” said Sirius, his face barely a foot from Snape’s, “I don’t care if Dumbledore thinks you’ve reformed, I know better —"
"Oh, but why don’t you tell him so?” whispered Snape. “Or are you afraid he might not take the advice of a man who has been hiding inside his mother’s house for six months very seriously?"
"Tell me, how is Lucius Malfoy these days? I expect he’s delighted his lapdog’s working at Hogwarts, isn’t he?"
"Speaking of dogs,” said Snape softly, “did you know that Lucius Malfoy recognized you last time you risked a little jaunt outside? Clever idea, Black, getting yourself seen on a safe station platform . . . gave you a cast-iron excuse not to leave your hidey-hole in future, didn’t it?"
"NO!” Harry yelled, vaulting over the table and trying to get in between them, “Sirius, don’t —"
"Are you calling me a coward?"
"Why, yes, I suppose I am,"
"Harry — get — out — of — it!"
"Cured!” he announced brightly to the kitchen at large. “Completely cured!"
"Merlin’s beard,” said Mr. Weasley, the smile sliding off his face, “what’s going on here?"
"Six o’clock Monday evening, Potter."
"But what’s been going on?"
"Nothing, Arthur,” said Sirius, who was breathing heavily as though he had just run a long distance. “Just a friendly little chat between two old school friends . . .” With what looked like an enormous effort, he smiled. “So . . . you’re cured? That’s great news, really great . . ."
"Yes, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Weasley, leading her husband forward into a chair. “Healer Smethwyck worked his magic in the end, found an antidote to whatever that snake’s got in its fangs, and Arthur’s learned his lesson about dabbling in Muggle medicine, haven’t you, dear?"
"Yes, Molly dear,"
"Dumbledore wants to stop you having those dreams about Voldemort,” said Hermione at once. “Well, you won’t be sorry not to have them anymore, will you?"
"Extra lessons with Snape?” said Ron, sounding aghast. “I’d rather have the nightmares!"
"I want you to take this,"
"What is it?"
"A way of letting me know if Snape’s giving you a hard time. No, don’t open it in here!” said Sirius, with a wary look at Mrs. Weasley, who was trying to persuade the twins to wear hand-knitted mittens. “I doubt Molly would approve — but I want you to use it if you need me, all right?"
"Okay,"
"Let’s go, then,"
"Good-bye, Harry, take care,"
"See you Harry, and keep an eye out for snakes for me!"
"Right — yeah,” said Harry distractedly. It was his last chance to tell Sirius to be careful; he turned, looked into his godfather’s face and opened his mouth to speak, but before he could do so Sirius was giving him a brief, one-armed hug. He said gruffly, “Look after yourself, Harry,"
"Come on, the quicker we get on the bus the better,"
"Welcome to the —"
"Yes, yes, we know, thank you,” said Tonks swiftly. “On, on, get on —"
"’Ere — it’s ’Arry — !"
"If you shout his name I will curse you into oblivion,"
"I’ve always wanted to go on this thing,"
"Looks like we’ll have to split up,” said Tonks briskly, looking around for empty chairs. “Fred, George, and Ginny, if you just take those seats at the back . . . Remus can stay with you . . ."
"Just outside Birmingham,” said Stan happily, answering Harry’s unasked question as Ron struggled up from the floor. “You keepin’ well, then, ’Arry? I seen your name in the paper loads over the summer, but it weren’t never nuffink very nice. . . . I said to Ern, I said, ‘’e didn’t seem like a nutter when we met ’im, just goes to show, dunnit?’"
"I’ve changed my mind,” muttered Ron, picking himself up from the floor for the sixth time, “I never want to ride on here again."
"Listen, it’s ’Ogwarts stop after this,” said Stan brightly, swaying toward them. “That bossy woman up front ’oo got on with you, she’s given us a little tip to move you up the queue. We’re just gonna let Madam Marsh off first, though —” There was more retching from downstairs, followed by a horrible spattering sound. “She’s not feeling ’er best."
"You’ll be safe once you’re in the grounds,” said Tonks, casting a careful eye around at the deserted road. “Have a good term, okay?"
"Look after yourselves,” said Lupin, shaking hands all round and reaching Harry last. “And listen . . .” He lowered his voice while the rest of them exchanged last-minute good-byes with Tonks, “Harry, I know you don’t like Snape, but he is a superb Occlumens and we all — Sirius included — want you to learn to protect yourself, so work hard, all right?"
"Yeah, all right,” said Harry heavily, looking up into Lupin’s prematurely lined face. “See you, then . . ."
"I’ll let you know when the next one is,” Harry said over and over again, “but I can’t do it tonight, I’ve got to go to — er — Remedial Potions . . ."
"You take Remedial Potions?” asked Zacharias Smith superciliously, having cornered Harry in the entrance hall after lunch. “Good Lord, you must be terrible, Snape doesn’t usually give extra lessons, does he?"
"Shall I jinx him? I can still get him from here,"
"Forget it,” said Harry dismally. “It’s what everyone’s going to think, isn’t it? That I’m really stup —"
"Hi, Harry,"
"Oh,” said Harry as his stomach leapt uncomfortably. “Hi."
"We’ll be in the library, Harry,"
"Had a good Christmas?"
"Yeah, not bad,"
"Mine was pretty quiet,” said Cho. For some reason, she was looking rather embarrassed. “Erm . . . there’s another Hogsmeade trip next month, did you see the notice?"
"What? Oh no, I haven’t checked the notice board since I got back . . ."
"Yes, it’s on Valentine’s Day . . ."
"Right,” said Harry, wondering why she was telling him this. “Well, I suppose you want to — ?"
"Only if you do,"
"I suppose you want to know when the next D.A. meeting is?"
"I — er —"
"Oh, it’s okay if you don’t,” she said, looking mortified. “Don’t worry. I-I’ll see you around."
"Cho! Hey — CHO!"
"Er — d’you want to come into Hogsmeade with me on Valentine’s Day?"
"Oooh, yes!"
"Right . . . well . . . that’s settled then,"
"Shut the door behind you, Potter."
"Well, Potter, you know why you are here,” he said. “The headmaster has asked me to teach you Occlumency. I can only hope that you prove more adept at it than Potions."
"Right,"
"This may not be an ordinary class, Potter,” said Snape, his eyes narrowed malevolently, “but I am still your teacher and you will therefore call me ‘sir’ or ‘Professor’ at all times."
"Yes . . . sir,"
"Now, Occlumency. As I told you back in your dear godfather’s kitchen, this branch of magic seals the mind against magical intrusion and influence."
"And why does Professor Dumbledore think I need it, sir?"
"Surely even you could have worked that out by now, Potter? The Dark Lord is highly skilled at Legilimency —"
"What’s that? Sir?"
"It is the ability to extract feelings and memories from another person’s mind —"
"He can read minds?"
"You have no subtlety, Potter,” said Snape, his dark eyes glittering. “You do not understand fine distinctions. It is one of the shortcomings that makes you such a lamentable potion-maker."
"Only Muggles talk of ‘mind reading.’ The mind is not a book, to be opened at will and examined at leisure. Thoughts are not etched on the inside of skulls, to be perused by any invader. The mind is a complex and many-layered thing, Potter . . . or at least, most minds are . . .” He smirked. “It is true, however, that those who have mastered Legilimency are able, under certain conditions, to delve into the minds of their victims and to interpret their findings correctly. The Dark Lord, for instance, almost always knows when somebody is lying to him. Only those skilled at Occlumency are able to shut down those feelings and memories that contradict the lie, and so utter falsehoods in his presence without detection."
"So he could know what we’re thinking right now? Sir?"
"The Dark Lord is at a considerable distance and the walls and grounds of Hogwarts are guarded by many ancient spells and charms to ensure the bodily and mental safety of those who dwell within them,” said Snape. “Time and space matter in magic, Potter. Eye contact is often essential to Legilimency."
"Well then, why do I have to learn Occlumency?"
"The usual rules do not seem to apply with you, Potter. The curse that failed to kill you seems to have forged some kind of connection between you and the Dark Lord. The evidence suggests that at times, when your mind is most relaxed and vulnerable — when you are asleep, for instance — you are sharing the Dark Lord’s thoughts and emotions. The headmaster thinks it inadvisable for this to continue. He wishes me to teach you how to close your mind to the Dark Lord."
"But why does Professor Dumbledore want to stop it?” he asked abruptly. “I don’t like it much, but it’s been useful, hasn’t it? I mean . . . I saw that snake attack Mr. Weasley and if I hadn’t, Professor Dumbledore wouldn’t have been able to save him, would he? Sir?"
"It appears that the Dark Lord has been unaware of the connection between you and himself until very recently. Up till now it seems that you have been experiencing his emotions and sharing his thoughts without his being any the wiser. However, the vision you had shortly before Christmas —"
"The one with the snake and Mr. Weasley?"
"Do not interrupt me, Potter,” said Snape in a dangerous voice. “As I was saying . . . the vision you had shortly before Christmas represented such a powerful incursion upon the Dark Lord’s thoughts —"
"I saw inside the snake’s head, not his!"
"I thought I just told you not to interrupt me, Potter?"
"How come I saw through the snake’s eyes if it’s Voldemort’s thoughts I’m sharing?"
"Do not say the Dark Lord’s name!"
"Professor Dumbledore says his name,"
"Dumbledore is an extremely powerful wizard,” Snape muttered. “While he may feel secure enough to use the name . . . the rest of us . . ."
"I just wanted to know,” Harry began again, forcing his voice back to politeness, “why —"
"You seem to have visited the snake’s mind because that was where the Dark Lord was at that particular moment,” snarled Snape. “He was possessing the snake at the time and so you dreamed you were inside it too . . ."
"And Vol — he — realized I was there?"
"It seems so,"
"How do you know?” said Harry urgently. “Is this just Professor Dumbledore guessing, or — ?"
"I told you,” said Snape, rigid in his chair, his eyes slits, “to call me ‘sir.’"
"Yes, sir,” said Harry impatiently, “but how do you know — ?"
"It is enough that we know,” said Snape repressively. “The important point is that the Dark Lord is now aware that you are gaining access to his thoughts and feelings. He has also deduced that the process is likely to work in reverse; that is to say, he has realized that he might be able to access your thoughts and feelings in return —"
"And he might try and make me do things?” asked Harry. “Sir?"
"He might,” said Snape, sounding cold and unconcerned. “Which brings us back to Occlumency."
"Stand up and take out your wand, Potter."
"You may use your wand to attempt to disarm me, or defend yourself in any other way you can think of,"
"And what are you going to do?"
"I am about to attempt to break into your mind,” said Snape softly. “We are going to see how well you resist. I have been told that you have already shown aptitude at resisting the Imperius Curse. . . . You will find that similar powers are needed for this. . . . Brace yourself, now. . . . Legilimens!"
"Did you mean to produce a Stinging Hex?"
"No,"
"I thought not,” said Snape contemptuously. “You let me get in too far. You lost control."
"Did you see everything I saw?"
"Flashes of it,” said Snape, his lip curling. “To whom did the dog belong?"
"My Aunt Marge,"
"Well, for a first attempt that was not as poor as it might have been,” said Snape, raising his wand once more. “You managed to stop me eventually, though you wasted time and energy shouting. You must remain focused. Repel me with your brain and you will not need to resort to your wand."
"I’m trying,” said Harry angrily, “but you’re not telling me how!"
"Manners, Potter,” said Snape dangerously. “Now, I want you to close your eyes."
"Clear your mind, Potter,” said Snape’s cold voice. “Let go of all emotion . . ."
"You’re not doing it, Potter. . . . You will need more discipline than this. . . . Focus, now . . ."
"Let’s go again . . . on the count of three . . . one — two — three — Legilimens!"
"NOOOOOOO!"
"Get up!” said Snape sharply. “Get up! You are not trying, you are making no effort, you are allowing me access to memories you fear, handing me weapons!"
"I — am — making — an — effort,"
"I told you to empty yourself of emotion!"
"Yeah? Well, I’m finding that hard at the moment,"
"Then you will find yourself easy prey for the Dark Lord!” said Snape savagely. “Fools who wear their hearts proudly on their sleeves, who cannot control their emotions, who wallow in sad memories and allow themselves to be provoked this easily — weak people, in other words — they stand no chance against his powers! He will penetrate your mind with absurd ease, Potter!"
"I am not weak,"
"Then prove it! Master yourself!” spat Snape. “Control your anger, discipline your mind! We shall try again! Get ready, now! Legilimens!"
"I KNOW! I KNOW!"
"What happened then, Potter?"
"I saw — I remembered,” Harry panted. “I’ve just realized . . ."
"Realized what?"
"What’s in the Department of Mysteries?"
"What did you say?"
"I said, what’s in the Department of Mysteries, sir?"
"And why,” said Snape slowly, “would you ask such a thing?"
"Because,” said Harry, watching Snape closely for a reaction, “that corridor I’ve just seen — I’ve been dreaming about it for months — I’ve just recognized it — it leads to the Department of Mysteries . . . and I think Voldemort wants something from —"
"I have told you not to say the Dark Lord’s name!"
"There are many things in the Department of Mysteries, Potter, few of which you would understand and none of which concern you, do I make myself plain?"
"Yes,"
"I want you back here same time on Wednesday, and we will continue work then."
"Fine,"
"You are to rid your mind of all emotion every night before sleep — empty it, make it blank and calm, you understand?"
"Yes,"
"And be warned, Potter . . . I shall know if you have not practiced . . ."
"Right,"
"How did it go?” Hermione whispered, and then, looking concerned, “Are you all right, Harry?"
"Yeah . . . fine . . . I dunno,” said Harry impatiently, wincing as pain shot through his scar again. “Listen . . . I’ve just realized something . . ."
"So . . . so, are you saying . . .” whispered Ron, as Madam Pince swept past, squeaking slightly, “that the weapon — the thing You-Know-Who’s after — is in the Ministry of Magic?"
"In the Department of Mysteries, it’s got to be,” Harry whispered. “I saw that door when your dad took me down to the courtrooms for my hearing and it’s definitely the same one he was guarding when the snake bit him."
"Of course,"
"Of course what?"
"Ron, think about it. . . . Sturgis Podmore was trying to get through a door at the Ministry of Magic. . . . It must have been that one, it’s too much of a coincidence!"
"How come Sturgis was trying to break in when he’s on our side?"
"Well, I don’t know,” Hermione admitted. “That is a bit odd . . ."
"So what’s in the Department of Mysteries?” Harry asked Ron. “Has your dad ever mentioned anything about it?"
"I know they call the people who work in there ‘Unspeakables,’” said Ron, frowning. “Because no one really seems to know what they do in there. . . . Weird place to have a weapon . . ."
"It’s not weird at all, it makes perfect sense,” said Hermione. “It will be something top secret that the Ministry has been developing, I expect. . . . Harry, are you sure you’re all right?"
"Yeah . . . fine . . .” he said, lowering his hands, which were trembling. “I just feel a bit . . . I don’t like Occlumency much . . ."
"I expect anyone would feel shaky if they’d had their mind attacked over and over again,” said Hermione sympathetically. “Look, let’s get back to the common room, we’ll be a bit more comfortable there . . ."
"Headless Hats!” shouted George, as Fred waved a pointed hat decorated with a fluffy pink feather at the watching students. “Two Galleons each — watch Fred, now!"
"And off again!"
"How do those hats work, then?” said Hermione, distracted from her homework and watching Fred and George. “I mean, obviously it’s some kind of Invisibility Spell, but it’s rather clever to have extended the field of invisibility beyond the boundaries of the charmed object. . . . I’d imagine the charm wouldn’t have a very long life though . . ."
"I’m going to have to do this tomorrow,"
"Well, write it in your homework planner then!” said Hermione encouragingly. “So you don’t forget!"
"Don’t leave it till later, you big second-rater!"
"I think I’ll go to bed,"
"Harry? HARRY!"
"What happened?"
"I . . . dunno . . .” Harry gasped, sitting up again. “He’s really happy . . . really happy . . ."
"You-Know-Who is?"
"Something good’s happened,” mumbled Harry. He was shaking as badly as he had done after seeing the snake attack Mr. Weasley and felt very sick. “Something he’s been hoping for."
"Hermione told me to come and check on you,” said Ron in a low voice, helping Harry to his feet. “She says your defenses will be low at the moment, after Snape’s been fiddling around with your mind. . . . Still, I suppose it’ll help in the long run, won’t it?"
"What?"
"Black?” said Harry loudly. “Not — ?"
"Shhh!” whispered Hermione desperately. “Not so loud — just read it!"
"We find ourselves, most unfortunately, in the same position we were two and a half years ago when the murderer Sirius Black escaped,” said Fudge last night. “Nor do we think the two breakouts are unrelated. An escape of this magnitude suggests outside help, and we must remember that Black, as the first person ever to break out of Azkaban, would be ideally placed to help others follow in his footsteps. We think it likely that these individuals, who include Black’s cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange, have rallied around Black as their leader. We are, however, doing all we can to round up the criminals and beg the magical community to remain alert and cautious. On no account should any of these individuals be approached."
"There you are, Harry,” said Ron, looking awestruck. “That’s why he was happy last night . . ."
"I don’t believe this,” snarled Harry, “Fudge is blaming the breakout on Sirius?"
"What other options does he have?” said Hermione bitterly. “He can hardly say, ‘Sorry everyone, Dumbledore warned me this might happen, the Azkaban guards have joined Lord Voldemort’ — stop whimpering, Ron — ‘and now Voldemort’s worst supporters have broken out too.’ I mean, he’s spent a good six months telling everyone you and Dumbledore are liars, hasn’t he?"
"Oh my —"
"What now?"
"It’s . . . horrible,"
"St. Mungo’s is as yet unable to account for the presence of the plant on the ward and asks any witch or wizard with information to come forward."
"Bode . . .” said Ron. “Bode. It rings a bell . . ."
"We saw him,” Hermione whispered. “In St. Mungo’s, remember? He was in the bed opposite Lockhart’s, just lying there, staring at the ceiling. And we saw the Devil’s Snare arrive. She — the Healer — said it was a Christmas present . . ."
"How come we didn’t recognize Devil’s Snare . . . ? We’ve seen it before . . . we could’ve stopped this from happening . . ."
"Who expects Devil’s Snare to turn up in a hospital disguised as a potted plant?” said Ron sharply. “It’s not our fault, whoever sent it to the bloke is to blame! They must be a real prat, why didn’t they check what they were buying?"
"Oh come on, Ron!” said Hermione shakily, “I don’t think anyone could put Devil’s Snare in a pot and not realize it tries to kill whoever touches it? This — this was murder. . . . A clever murder, as well. . . . If the plant was sent anonymously, how’s anyone ever going to find out who did it?"
"I met Bode,” he said slowly. “I saw him at the Ministry with your dad . . ."
"I’ve heard Dad talk about him at home! He was an Unspeakable — he worked in the Department of Mysteries!"
"Where are you going?"
"To send a letter,” said Hermione, swinging her bag onto her shoulder. “It . . . well, I don’t know whether . . . but it’s worth trying . . . and I’m the only one who can . . ."
"I hate it when she does that,” grumbled Ron as he and Harry got up from the table and made their own, slower way out of the Great Hall. “Would it kill her to tell us what she’s up to for once? It’d take her about ten more seconds — hey, Hagrid!"
"All righ’, you two?"
"Are you okay, Hagrid?"
"Fine, fine,” said Hagrid with a feeble assumption of airiness; he waved a hand and narrowly missed concussing a frightened-looking Professor Vector, who was passing. “Jus’ busy, yeh know, usual stuff — lessons ter prepare — couple o’ salamanders got scale rot — an’ I’m on probation,"
"You’re on probation?” said Ron very loudly, so that many students passing looked around curiously. “Sorry — I mean — you’re on probation?"
"Yeah,” said Hagrid. “’S’no more’n I expected, ter tell yeh the truth. Yeh migh’ not’ve picked up on it, bu’ that inspection didn’ go too well, yeh know . . . anyway,” he sighed deeply. “Bes’ go an rub a bit more chili powder on them salamanders or their tails’ll be hangin’ off ’em next. See yeh, Harry . . . Ron . . ."
"And I don’t know how you stand it, it’s horrible,"
"They obviously can’t talk freely in the staffroom anymore,” said Hermione in a low voice, as she, Harry, and Ron passed Professors McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout huddled together outside the Charms classroom one day. “Not with Umbridge there."
"Reckon they know anything new?"
"If they do, we’re not going to hear about it, are we?” said Harry angrily. “Not after Decree . . . What number are we on now?"
"Exploding Snap’s got nothing to do with Defense Against the Dark Arts, Professor! That’s not information relating to your subject!"
"If she catches yeh, it’ll be all of our necks on the line,"
"Maybe it’s a bit like an illness,” said Hermione, looking concerned when Harry confided in her and Ron. “A fever or something. It has to get worse before it gets better."
"It’s lessons with Snape that are making it worse,” said Harry flatly. “I’m getting sick of my scar hurting, and I’m getting bored walking down that corridor every night.” He rubbed his forehead angrily. “I just wish the door would open, I’m sick of standing staring at it —"
"That’s not funny,” said Hermione sharply. “Dumbledore doesn’t want you to have dreams about that corridor at all, or he wouldn’t have asked Snape to teach you Occlumency. You’re just going to have to work a bit harder in your lessons."
"I am working!” said Harry, nettled. “You try it sometime, Snape trying to get inside your head, it’s not a bundle of laughs, you know!"
"Maybe . . ."
"Maybe what?"
"Maybe it’s not Harry’s fault he can’t close his mind,"
"What do you mean?"
"Well, maybe Snape isn’t really trying to help Harry . . ."
"Maybe,” he said again in a lower voice, “he’s actually trying to open Harry’s mind a bit wider . . . make it easier for You-Know —"
"Shut up, Ron,” said Hermione angrily. “How many times have you suspected Snape, and when have you ever been right? Dumbledore trusts him, he works for the Order, that ought to be enough."
"He used to be a Death Eater,” said Ron stubbornly. “And we’ve never seen proof that he really swapped sides . . ."
"Dumbledore trusts him,” Hermione repeated. “And if we can’t trust Dumbledore, we can’t trust anyone."
"And about time! If it hadn’t come today . . ."
"Listen, Harry,” she said, looking up at him. “This is really important. . . . Do you think you could meet me in the Three Broomsticks around midday?"
"Well . . . I dunno,” said Harry dubiously. “Cho might be expecting me to spend the whole day with her. We never said what we were going to do."
"Well, bring her along if you must,” said Hermione urgently. “But will you come?"
"Well . . . all right, but why?"
"I haven’t got time to tell you now, I’ve got to answer this quickly —"
"Are you coming?"
"I can’t come into Hogsmeade at all, Angelina wants a full day’s training. Like it’s going to help — we’re the worst team I’ve ever seen. You should see Sloper and Kirke, they’re pathetic, even worse than I am.” He heaved a great sigh. “I dunno why Angelina won’t just let me resign . . ."
"It’s because you’re good when you’re on form, that’s why,"
"Hi,"
"Hi,"
"Well — er — shall we go, then?"
"Oh — yes . . ."
"You really miss it, don’t you?"
"Yeah,” sighed Harry. “I do."
"Remember the first time we played against each other?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, grinning. “You kept blocking me."
"And Wood told you not to be a gentleman and knock me off my broom if you had to,” said Cho, smiling reminiscently. “I heard he got taken on by Pride of Portree, is that right?"
"Nah, it was Puddlemere United, I saw him at the World Cup last year."
"Oh, I saw you there too, remember? We were on the same campsite. It was really good, wasn’t it?"
"Potter and Chang!” screeched Pansy to a chorus of snide giggles. “Urgh, Chang, I don’t think much of your taste. . . . At least Diggory was good-looking!"
"So . . . where d’you want to go?"
"Oh . . . I don’t mind,” said Cho, shrugging. “Um . . . shall we just have a look in the shops or something?"
"By Order of the Ministry of Magic"
"It’s funny, isn’t it,” said Cho in a low voice, also gazing up at the pictures of the Death Eaters. “Remember when that Sirius Black escaped, and there were dementors all over Hogsmeade looking for him? And now ten Death Eaters are on the loose and there aren’t dementors anywhere . . ."
"Yeah,” said Harry, tearing his eyes away from Bellatrix Lestrange’s face to glance up and down the High Street. “Yeah, it is weird . . ."
"Um . . . d’you want to get a coffee?"
"Yeah, all right,” said Harry, looking around. “Where — ?"
"Oh, there’s a really nice place just up here, haven’t you ever been to Madam Puddifoot’s?"
"Cute, isn’t it?"
"Er . . . yeah,"
"Look, she’s decorated it for Valentine’s Day!"
"Aaah . . ."
"What can I get you, m’dears?"
"Two coffees, please,"
"Er . . . listen, d’you want to come with me to the Three Broomsticks at lunchtime? I’m meeting Hermione Granger there."
"You’re meeting Hermione Granger? Today?"
"Yeah. Well, she asked me to, so I thought I would. D’you want to come with me? She said it wouldn’t matter if you did."
"Oh . . . well . . . that was nice of her."
"He asked me out, you know,” she said in a quiet voice. “A couple of weeks ago. Roger. I turned him down, though."
"I came in here with Cedric last year,"
"I’ve been meaning to ask you for ages. . . . Did Cedric — did he m-m-mention me at all before he died?"
"Well — no —” he said quietly. “There — there wasn’t time for him to say anything. Erm . . . so . . . d’you . . . d’you get to see a lot of Quidditch in the holidays? You support the Tornados, right?"
"Look,” he said desperately, leaning in so that nobody else could overhear, “let’s not talk about Cedric right now. . . . Let’s talk about something else . . ."
"I thought,” she said, tears spattering down onto the table. “I thought you’d u-u-understand! I need to talk about it! Surely you n-need to talk about it t-too! I mean, you saw it happen, d-didn’t you?"
"Well — I have talked about it,” Harry said in a whisper, “to Ron and Hermione, but —"
"Oh, you’ll talk to Hermione Granger!” she said shrilly, her face now shining with tears, and several more kissing couples broke apart to stare. “But you won’t talk to me! P-perhaps it would be best if we just . . . just p-paid and you went and met up with Hermione G-Granger, like you obviously want to!"
"Cho?"
"Go on, leave!” she said, now crying into the napkin. “I don’t know why you asked me out in the first place if you’re going to make arrangements to meet other girls right after me. . . . How many are you meeting after Hermione?"
"It’s not like that!"
"I’ll see you around, Harry,"
"Cho!"
"Women!” he muttered angrily, sloshing down the rain-washed street with his hands in his pockets. “What did she want to talk about Cedric for anyway? Why does she always want to drag up a subject that makes her act like a human hosepipe?"
"Hi, Hagrid!"
"Oh, it’s you, Harry,” said Hagrid. “You all righ’?"
"Yeah, I’m fine,” lied Harry; in fact, next to this battered and mournful-looking Hagrid, he felt he did not have much to complain about. “Er — are you okay?"
"Me?” said Hagrid. “Oh yeah, I’m grand, Harry, grand . . ."
"In the same boat, you an’ me, aren’ we, Harry?"
"Er —"
"Yeah . . . I’ve said it before. . . . Both outsiders, like,” said Hagrid, nodding wisely. “An’ both orphans. Yeah . . . both orphans."
"Makes a diff’rence, havin’ a decent family,” he said. “Me dad was decent. An’ your mum an’ dad were decent. If they’d lived, life woulda bin diff’rent, eh?"
"Yeah . . . I s’pose,"
"Family,” said Hagrid gloomily. “Whatever yeh say, blood’s important . . ."
"Hagrid,” said Harry, unable to stop himself, “where are you getting all these injuries?"
"Eh?” said Hagrid, looking startled. “Wha’ injuries?"
"All those!"
"Oh . . . tha’s jus’ normal bumps an’ bruises, Harry,” said Hagrid dismissively. “I got a rough job."
"I’ll be seein’ yeh, Harry. . . . Take care now . . ."
"Harry! Harry, over here!"
"You’re early!” said Hermione, moving along to give him room to sit down. “I thought you were with Cho, I wasn’t expecting you for another hour at least!"
"Cho?” said Rita at once, twisting around in her seat to stare avidly at Harry. “A girl?"
"It’s none of your business if Harry’s been with a hundred girls,” Hermione told Rita coolly. “So you can put that away right now."
"What are you up to?"
"Little Miss Perfect was just about to tell me when you arrived,” said Rita, taking a large slurp of her drink. “I suppose I’m allowed to talk to him, am I?"
"Yes, I suppose you are,"
"Pretty girl, is she, Harry?"
"One more word about Harry’s love life and the deal’s off and that’s a promise,"
"What deal?” said Rita, wiping her mouth on the back of her hand. “You haven’t mentioned a deal yet, Miss Prissy, you just told me to turn up. Oh, one of these days . . ."
"Yes, yes, one of these days you’ll write more horrible stories about Harry and me,” said Hermione indifferently. “Find someone who cares, why don’t you?"
"They’ve run plenty of horrible stories about Harry this year without my help,” said Rita, shooting a sideways look at him over the top of her glass and adding in a rough whisper, “How has that made you feel, Harry? Betrayed? Distraught? Misunderstood?"
"He feels angry, of course,” said Hermione in a hard, clear voice. “Because he’s told the Minister of Magic the truth and the Minister’s too much of an idiot to believe him."
"So you actually stick to it, do you, that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back?” said Rita, lowering her glass and subjecting Harry to a piercing stare while her finger strayed longingly to the clasp of the crocodile bag. “You stand by all this garbage Dumbledore’s been telling everybody about You-Know-Who returning and you being the sole witness — ?"
"I wasn’t the sole witness,” snarled Harry. “There were a dozen-odd Death Eaters there as well. Want their names?"
"I’d love them,” breathed Rita, now fumbling in her bag once more and gazing at him as though he was the most beautiful thing she had ever seen. “A great bold headline: ‘Potter Accuses . . .’ A subheading: ‘Harry Potter Names Death Eaters Still Among Us.’ And then, beneath a nice big photograph of you: ‘Disturbed teenage survivor of You-Know-Who’s attack, Harry Potter, 15, caused outrage yesterday by accusing respectable and prominent members of the Wizarding community of being Death Eaters . . .’"
"But of course,” she said, lowering the quill and looking daggers at Hermione, “Little Miss Perfect wouldn’t want that story out there, would she?"
"As a matter of fact,” said Hermione sweetly, “that’s exactly what Little Miss Perfect does want."
"Weasley Is Our King"
"You want me to report what he says about He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"
"Yes, I do,” said Hermione. “The true story. All the facts. Exactly as Harry reports them. He’ll give you all the details, he’ll tell you the names of the undiscovered Death Eaters he saw there, he’ll tell you what Voldemort looks like now — oh, get a grip on yourself,"
"The Prophet wouldn’t print it. In case you haven’t noticed, nobody believes his cock-and-bull story. Everyone thinks he’s delusional. Now, if you let me write the story from that angle —"
"We don’t need another story about how Harry’s lost his marbles!” said Hermione angrily. “We’ve had plenty of those already, thank you! I want him given the opportunity to tell the truth!"
"There’s no market for a story like that,"
"You mean the Prophet won’t print it because Fudge won’t let them,"
"All right, Fudge is leaning on the Prophet, but it comes to the same thing. They won’t print a story that shows Harry in a good light. Nobody wants to read it. It’s against the public mood. This last Azkaban breakout has got people quite worried enough. People just don’t want to believe You-Know-Who’s back."
"So the Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they want to hear, does it?"
"The Prophet exists to sell itself, you silly girl,"
"My dad thinks it’s an awful paper,” said Luna, chipping into the conversation unexpectedly. Sucking on her cocktail onion, she gazed at Rita with her enormous, protuberant, slightly mad eyes. “He publishes important stories that he thinks the public needs to know. He doesn’t care about making money."
"I’m guessing your father runs some stupid little village newsletter?” she said. “‘Twenty-five Ways to Mingle with Muggles’ and the dates of the next Bring-and-Fly Sale?"
"No,” said Luna, dipping her onion back into her gillywater, “he’s the editor of The Quibbler."
"‘Important stories he thinks the public needs to know’?” she said witheringly. “I could manure my garden with the contents of that rag."
"Well, this is your chance to raise the tone of it a bit, isn’t it?” said Hermione pleasantly. “Luna says her father’s quite happy to take Harry’s interview. That’s who’ll be publishing it."
"The Quibbler!” she said, cackling. “You think people will take him seriously if he’s published in The Quibbler?"
"Some people won’t,” said Hermione in a level voice. “But the Daily Prophet’s version of the Azkaban breakout had some gaping holes in it. I think a lot of people will be wondering whether there isn’t a better explanation of what happened, and if there’s an alternative story available, even if it is published in a” — she glanced sideways at Luna, “in a — well, an unusual magazine — I think they might be rather keen to read it."
"All right, let’s say for a moment I’ll do it,” she said abruptly. “What kind of fee am I going to get?"
"I don’t think Daddy exactly pays people to write for the magazine,” said Luna dreamily. “They do it because it’s an honor, and, of course, to see their names in print."
"I’m supposed to do this for free?"
"Well, yes,” said Hermione calmly, taking a sip of her drink. “Otherwise, as you very well know, I will inform the authorities that you are an unregistered Animagus. Of course, the Prophet might give you rather a lot for an insider’s account of life in Azkaban . . ."
"I don’t suppose I’ve got any choice, have I?"
"Daddy will be pleased,"
"Okay, Harry?” said Hermione, turning to him. “Ready to tell the public the truth?"
"I suppose,"
"Fire away, then, Rita,"
"And, of course, that’ll be a very important story, so Harry’s might have to wait for the following issue,"
"Can’t wait to see what Umbridge thinks of you going public,"
"It’s the right thing to do, Harry,” said Neville, who was sitting opposite him. He was rather pale, but went on in a low voice, “It must have been . . . tough . . . talking about it. . . . Was it?"
"Yeah,” mumbled Harry, “but people have got to know what Voldemort’s capable of, haven’t they?"
"That’s right,” said Neville, nodding, “and his Death Eaters too . . . People should know . . ."
"Oh, I forgot to ask you,” said Hermione brightly, glancing over at the Ravenclaw table, “what happened on your date with Cho? How come you were back so early?"
"Er . . . well, it was . . .” said Harry, pulling a dish of rhubarb crumble toward him and helping himself to seconds, “a complete fiasco, now you mention it."
". . . so then,” he finished several minutes later, as the final bit of crumble disappeared, “she jumps up, right, and says ‘I’ll see you around, Harry,’ and runs out of the place!” He put down his spoon and looked at Hermione. “I mean, what was all that about? What was going on?"
"Oh, Harry,” she said sadly. “Well, I’m sorry, but you were a bit tactless."
"Me, tactless?” said Harry, outraged. “One minute we were getting on fine, next minute she was telling me that Roger Davies asked her out, and how she used to go and snog Cedric in that stupid tea shop — how was I supposed to feel about that?"
"Well, you see,” said Hermione, with the patient air of one explaining that one plus one equals two to an overemotional toddler, “you shouldn’t have told her that you wanted to meet me halfway through your date."
"But, but,” spluttered Harry, “but — you told me to meet you at twelve and to bring her along, how was I supposed to do that without telling her — ?"
"You should have told her differently,” said Hermione, still with that maddeningly patient air. “You should have said it was really annoying, but I’d made you promise to come along to the Three Broomsticks, and you really didn’t want to go, you’d much rather spend the whole day with her, but unfortunately you thought you really ought to meet me and would she please, please come along with you, and hopefully you’d be able to get away more quickly? And it might have been a good idea to mention how ugly you think I am too,"
"But I don’t think you’re ugly,"
"Harry, you’re worse than Ron. . . . Well, no, you’re not,” she sighed, as Ron himself came stumping into the Hall splattered with mud and looking grumpy. “Look — you upset Cho when you said you were going to meet me, so she tried to make you jealous. It was her way of trying to find out how much you liked her."
"Is that what she was doing?” said Harry as Ron dropped onto the bench opposite them and pulled every dish within reach toward himself. “Well, wouldn’t it have been easier if she’d just asked me whether I liked her better than you?"
"Girls don’t often ask questions like that,"
"Well, they should!” said Harry forcefully. “Then I could’ve just told her I fancy her, and she wouldn’t have had to get herself all worked up again about Cedric dying!"
"I’m not saying what she did was sensible,” said Hermione, as Ginny joined them, just as muddy as Ron and looking equally disgruntled. “I’m just trying to make you see how she was feeling at the time."
"You should write a book,” Ron told Hermione as he cut up his potatoes, “translating mad things girls do so boys can understand them."
"Yeah,” said Harry fervently, looking over at the Ravenclaw table. Cho had just got up; still not looking at him, she left the Great Hall. Feeling rather depressed, he looked back at Ron and Ginny. “So, how was Quidditch practice?"
"It was a nightmare,"
"Oh come on,” said Hermione, looking at Ginny, “I’m sure it wasn’t that —"
"Yes, it was,” said Ginny. “It was appalling. Angelina was nearly in tears by the end of it."
"Ron and Ginny not here?” asked Fred, looking around as he pulled up a chair and, when Harry shook his head, he said, “Good. We were watching their practice. They’re going to be slaughtered. They’re complete rubbish without us."
"Come on, Ginny’s not bad,” said George fairly, sitting down next to Fred. “Actually, I dunno how she got so good, seeing how we never let her play with us . . ."
"She’s been breaking into your broom shed in the garden since the age of six and taking each of your brooms out in turn when you weren’t looking,"
"Oh,” said George, looking mildly impressed. “Well — that’d explain it."
"Has Ron saved a goal yet?"
"Well, he can do it if he doesn’t think anyone’s watching him,” said Fred, rolling his eyes. “So all we have to do is ask the crowd to turn their backs and talk among themselves every time the Quaffle goes up his end on Saturday."
"You know, Quidditch was about the only thing in this place worth staying for."
"You’ve got exams coming!"
"Told you already, we’re not fussed about N.E.W.T.s,” said Fred. “The Snackboxes are ready to roll, we found out how to get rid of those boils, just a couple of drops of murtlap essence sorts them, Lee put us onto it . . ."
"I dunno if I even want to watch this match. If Zacharias Smith beats us I might have to kill myself."
"Kill him, more like,"
"That’s the trouble with Quidditch,” said Hermione absentmindedly, once again bent over her Rune translation, “it creates all this bad feeling and tension between the Houses."
"Well, it does!” she said impatiently. “It’s only a game, isn’t it?"
"Hermione,” said Harry, shaking his head, “you’re good on feelings and stuff, but you just don’t understand about Quidditch."
"Maybe not,” she said darkly, returning to her translation again, “but at least my happiness doesn’t depend on Ron’s goalkeeping ability."
"Good catch,"
"I was lucky,” she shrugged. “It wasn’t a very fast Snitch and Summerby’s got a cold, he sneezed and closed his eyes at exactly the wrong moment. Anyway, once you’re back on the team —"
"Ginny, I’ve got a lifelong ban."
"You’re banned as long as Umbridge is in the school,” Ginny corrected him. “There’s a difference. Anyway, once you’re back, I think I’ll try out for Chaser. Angelina and Alicia are both leaving next year and I prefer goal-scoring to Seeking anyway."
"Angelina still won’t let him resign,” Ginny said, as though reading Harry’s mind. “She says she knows he’s got it in him."
"Weasley Is Our King"
"I haven’t got the heart to take the mickey out of him, even,” said Fred, looking over at Ron’s crumpled figure. “Mind you . . . when he missed the fourteenth . . ."
"Well, I’ll save it for parties, eh?"
"Who’re you after?"
"What’s going on?"
"Harry!” said Hermione breathlessly, plunging her hands into the feathery mass and pulling out a screech owl bearing a long, cylindrical package. “I think I know what this means — open this one first!"
"It’s good, isn’t it?” said Luna, who had drifted over to the Gryffindor table and now squeezed herself onto the bench between Fred and Ron. “It came out yesterday, I asked Dad to send you a free copy. I expect all these,” she waved a hand at the assembled owls still scrabbling around on the table in front of Harry, “are letters from readers."
"That’s what I thought,” said Hermione eagerly, “Harry, d’you mind if we — ?"
"Help yourself,"
"This one’s from a bloke who thinks you’re off your rocker,” said Ron, glancing down his letter. “Ah well . . ."
"This woman recommends you try a good course of Shock Spells at St. Mungo’s,"
"This one looks okay, though,” said Harry slowly, scanning a long letter from a witch in Paisley. “Hey, she says she believes me!"
"This one’s in two minds,” said Fred, who had joined in the letter-opening with enthusiasm. “Says you don’t come across as a mad person, but he really doesn’t want to believe You-Know-Who’s back so he doesn’t know what to think now. . . . Blimey, what a waste of parchment . . ."
"Here’s another one you’ve convinced, Harry!” said Hermione excitedly. “‘Having read your side of the story I am forced to the conclusion that the Daily Prophet has treated you very unfairly. . . . Little though I want to think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has returned, I am forced to accept that you are telling the truth . . .’ Oh this is wonderful!"
"Another one who thinks you’re barking,” said Ron, throwing a crumpled letter over his shoulder, “but this one says you’ve got her converted, and she now thinks you’re a real hero — she’s put in a photograph too — wow —"
"What is going on here?"
"Why have you got all these letters, Mr. Potter?"
"Is that a crime now?” said Fred loudly. “Getting mail?"
"Be careful, Mr. Weasley, or I shall have to put you in detention,” said Umbridge. “Well, Mr. Potter?"
"People have written to me because I gave an interview,” said Harry. “About what happened to me last June."
"An interview?” repeated Umbridge, her voice thinner and higher than ever. “What do you mean?"
"I mean a reporter asked me questions and I answered them,” said Harry. “Here —"
"When did you do this?"
"Last Hogsmeade weekend,"
"There will be no more Hogsmeade trips for you, Mr. Potter,” she whispered. “How you dare . . . how you could . . .” She took a deep breath. “I have tried again and again to teach you not to tell lies. The message, apparently, has still not sunk in. Fifty points from Gryffindor and another week’s worth of detentions."
"What exactly are you so happy about?"
"Oh Harry, don’t you see?” Hermione breathed. “If she could have done one thing to make absolutely sure that every single person in this school will read your interview, it was banning it!"
"And then they spotted me, and obviously they know I know you, so they were bombarding me with questions,” Hermione told Harry, her eyes shining, “and Harry, I think they believe you, I really do, I think you’ve finally got them convinced!"
"Shh!"
"I’m really, really sorry. That interview was so brave . . . it made me cry."
"I just wanted to say,” he mumbled, squinting at Harry’s left knee, “I believe you. And I’ve sent a copy of that magazine to me mam."
"And the best bit is,” whispered Hermione gleefully as they left the library, “they can’t contradict you, because they can’t admit they’ve read the article!"
"Dad’s reprinting!” she told Harry, her eyes popping excitedly. “He can’t believe it, he says people seem even more interested in this than the Crumple-Horned Snorkacks!"
"The Ministry are morons” and “Eat dung, Umbridge” in a booming voice. Hermione did not find this very amusing; she said it interfered with her concentration, and ended up going to bed early out of irritation. Harry had to admit that the poster was not quite as funny after an hour or two, especially when the talking spell had started to wear off, so that it merely shouted disconnected words like “Dung” and “Umbridge"
"I have been badly advised, it seems,"
"Master, I crave your pardon . . ."
"I do not blame you, Rookwood,"
"You are sure of your facts, Rookwood?"
"Yes, my Lord, yes . . . I used to work in the department after — after all . . ."
"Avery told me Bode would be able to remove it."
"Bode could never have taken it, Master. . . . Bode would have known he could not. . . . Undoubtedly that is why he fought so hard against Malfoy’s Imperius Curse . . ."
"Stand up, Rookwood,"
"You have done well to tell me this,” said Harry. “Very well . . . I have wasted months on fruitless schemes, it seems. . . . But no matter . . . We begin again, from now. You have Lord Voldemort’s gratitude, Rookwood . . ."
"My Lord . . . yes, my Lord,"
"I shall need your help. I shall need all the information you can give me."
"Of course, my Lord, of course . . . anything . . ."
"Very well . . . you may go. Send Avery to me."
"NOOOOOOOOO!"
"What?"
"Will you stop acting like a maniac, and I can get you out of here!"
"Has someone been attacked again?” asked Ron, pulling Harry roughly to his feet. “Is it Dad? Is it that snake?"
"No — everyone’s fine —” gasped Harry, whose forehead felt as though it was on fire again. “Well . . . Avery isn’t. . . . He’s in trouble. . . . He gave him the wrong information. . . . He’s really angry . . ."
"But Rookwood’s going to help him now. . . . He’s on the right track again . . ."
"What are you talking about?” said Ron, sounding scared. “D’you mean . . . did you just see You-Know-Who?"
"I was You-Know-Who,” said Harry, and he stretched out his hands in the darkness and held them up to his face to check that they were no longer deathly white and long-fingered. “He was with Rookwood, he’s one of the Death Eaters who escaped from Azkaban, remember? Rookwood’s just told him Bode couldn’t have done it . . ."
"Done what?"
"Remove something. . . . He said Bode would have known he couldn’t have done it. . . . Bode was under the Imperius Curse. . . . I think he said Malfoy’s dad put it on him . . ."
"Bode was bewitched to remove something?” Ron said. “But — Harry, that’s got to be —"
"The weapon,” Harry finished the sentence for him. “I know."
"Did you say,” murmured Ron, putting his head close to Harry’s on the pretense of helping himself to water from the jug on his bedside table, “that you were You-Know-Who?"
"Yeah,"
"Harry,” he said, as Dean and Seamus clattered around noisily, pulling off their robes, and talking, “you’ve got to tell —"
"I haven’t got to tell anyone,” said Harry shortly. “I wouldn’t have seen it at all if I could do Occlumency. I’m supposed to have learned to shut this stuff out. That’s what they want."
"they"
"So that’s why they killed him,” she said quietly, withdrawing her gaze from Fred and George at last. “When Bode tried to steal this weapon, something funny happened to him. I think there must be defensive spells on it, or around it, to stop people from touching it. That’s why he was in St. Mungo’s, his brain had gone all funny and he couldn’t talk. But remember what the Healer told us? He was recovering. And they couldn’t risk him getting better, could they? I mean, the shock of whatever happened when he touched that weapon probably made the Imperius Curse lift. Once he’d got his voice back, he’d explain what he’d been doing, wouldn’t he? They would have known he’d been sent to steal the weapon. Of course, it would have been easy for Lucius Malfoy to put the curse on him. Never out of the Ministry, is he?"
"He was even hanging around that day I had my hearing,” said Harry. “In the — hang on . . .” he said slowly. “He was in the Department of Mysteries corridor that day! Your dad said he was probably trying to sneak down and find out what happened in my hearing, but what if —"
"Sturgis,"
"Sorry?"
"Sturgis Podmore,” said Hermione, breathlessly. “Arrested for trying to get through a door. Lucius Malfoy got him too. I bet he did it the day you saw him there, Harry. Sturgis had Moody’s Invisibility Cloak, right? So what if he was standing guard by the door, invisible, and Malfoy heard him move, or guessed he was there, or just did the Imperius Curse on the off chance that a guard was there? So when Sturgis next had an opportunity — probably when it was his turn on guard duty again — he tried to get into the department to steal the weapon for Voldemort — Ron, be quiet — but he got caught and sent to Azkaban . . ."
"And now Rookwood’s told Voldemort how to get the weapon?"
"I didn’t hear all the conversation, but that’s what it sounded like,” said Harry. “Rookwood used to work there. . . . Maybe Voldemort’ll send Rookwood to do it?"
"But you shouldn’t have seen this at all, Harry."
"What?"
"You’re supposed to be learning how to close your mind to this sort of thing,"
"I know I am,” said Harry. “But —"
"Well, I think we should just try and forget what you saw,” said Hermione firmly. “And you ought to put in a bit more effort on your Occlumency from now on."
"Get up, Potter."
"That last memory,” said Snape. “What was it?"
"I don’t know,” said Harry, getting wearily to his feet. He was finding it increasingly difficult to disentangle separate memories from the rush of images and sound that Snape kept calling forth. “You mean the one where my cousin tried to make me stand in the toilet?"
"No,” said Snape softly. “I mean the one concerning a man kneeling in the middle of a darkened room . . ."
"It’s . . . nothing,"
"How do that man and that room come to be inside your head, Potter?"
"It —” said Harry, looking everywhere but at Snape, “it was — just a dream I had."
"A dream,"
"You do know why we are here, don’t you, Potter?” said Snape in a low, dangerous voice. “You do know why I am giving up my evenings to this tedious job?"
"Yes,"
"Remind me why we are here, Potter."
"So I can learn Occlumency,"
"Correct, Potter. And dim though you may be” — Harry looked back at Snape, hating him — “I would have thought that after two months’ worth of lessons you might have made some progress. How many other dreams about the Dark Lord have you had?"
"Just that one,"
"Perhaps,” said Snape, his dark, cold eyes narrowing slightly, “perhaps you actually enjoy having these visions and dreams, Potter. Maybe they make you feel special — important?"
"No, they don’t,"
"That is just as well, Potter,” said Snape coldly, “because you are neither special nor important, and it is not up to you to find out what the Dark Lord is saying to his Death Eaters."
"No — that’s your job, isn’t it?"
"Yes, Potter,” he said, his eyes glinting. “That is my job. Now, if you are ready, we will start again . . ."
"One — two — three — Legilimens!"
"Protego!"
"ENOUGH!"
"Reparo!” hissed Snape, and the jar sealed itself once more. “Well, Potter . . . that was certainly an improvement . . .” Panting slightly, Snape straightened the Pensieve in which he had again stored some of his thoughts before starting the lesson, almost as though checking that they were still there. “I don’t remember telling you to use a Shield Charm . . . but there is no doubt that it was effective . . ."
"Let’s try again, shall we?"
"On the count of three, then,” said Snape, raising his wand once more. “One — two —"
"Legilimens!"
"POTTER!"
"Explain yourself!"
"I . . . dunno what happened,” said Harry truthfully, standing up. There was a lump on the back of his head from where he had hit the ground and he felt feverish. “I’ve never seen that before. I mean, I told you, I’ve dreamed about the door . . . but it’s never opened before . . ."
"You are not working hard enough!"
"You are lazy and sloppy, Potter, it is small wonder that the Dark Lord —"
"Can you tell me something, sir?” said Harry, firing up again. “Why do you call Voldemort the Dark Lord, I’ve only ever heard Death Eaters call him that —"
"What the — ?"
"Did you see anything unusual on your way down here, Potter?"
"No!” she shrieked. “NO! This cannot be happening. . . . It cannot . . . I refuse to accept it!"
"You didn’t realize this was coming?” said a high girlish voice, sounding callously amused, and Harry, moving slightly to his right, saw that Trelawney’s terrifying vision was nothing other than Professor Umbridge. “Incapable though you are of predicting even tomorrow’s weather, you must surely have realized that your pitiful performance during my inspections, and lack of any improvement, would make it inevitable you would be sacked?"
"You c-can’t!” howled Professor Trelawney, tears streaming down her face from behind her enormous lenses, “you c-can’t sack me! I’ve b-been here sixteen years! H-Hogwarts is m-my h-home!"
"It was your home,” said Professor Umbridge, and Harry was revolted to see the enjoyment stretching her toadlike face as she watched Professor Trelawney sink, sobbing uncontrollably, onto one of her trunks, “until an hour ago, when the Minister of Magic countersigned the order for your dismissal. Now kindly remove yourself from this hall. You are embarrassing us."
"There, there, Sybill . . . Calm down. . . . Blow your nose on this. . . . It’s not as bad as you think, now. . . . You are not going to have to leave Hogwarts . . ."
"Oh really, Professor McGonagall?” said Umbridge in a deadly voice, taking a few steps forward. “And your authority for that statement is . . . ?"
"That would be mine,"
"Yours, Professor Dumbledore?” said Umbridge with a singularly unpleasant little laugh. “I’m afraid you do not understand the position. I have here” — she pulled a parchment scroll from within her robes — “an Order of Dismissal signed by myself and the Minister of Magic. Under the terms of Educational Decree Number Twenty-three, the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts has the power to inspect, place upon probation, and sack any teacher she — that is to say, I — feel is not performing up to the standard required by the Ministry of Magic. I have decided that Professor Trelawney is not up to scratch. I have dismissed her."
"You are quite right, of course, Professor Umbridge. As High Inquisitor you have every right to dismiss my teachers. You do not, however, have the authority to send them away from the castle. I am afraid,” he went on, with a courteous little bow, “that the power to do that still resides with the headmaster, and it is my wish that Professor Trelawney continue to live at Hogwarts."
"No — no, I’ll g-go, Dumbledore! I sh-shall l-leave Hogwarts and s-seek my fortune elsewhere —"
"No,” said Dumbledore sharply. “It is my wish that you remain, Sybill."
"Might I ask you to escort Sybill back upstairs, Professor McGonagall?"
"Of course,” said McGonagall. “Up you get, Sybill . . ."
"Locomotor trunks!"
"And what,” she said in a whisper that nevertheless carried all around the entrance hall, “are you going to do with her once I appoint a new Divination teacher who needs her lodgings?"
"Oh, that won’t be a problem,” said Dumbledore pleasantly. “You see, I have already found us a new Divination teacher, and he will prefer lodgings on the ground floor."
"You’ve found — ?” said Umbridge shrilly. “You’ve found? Might I remind you, Dumbledore, that under Educational Decree Twenty-two —"
"— the Ministry has the right to appoint a suitable candidate if — and only if — the headmaster is unable to find one,” said Dumbledore. “And I am happy to say that on this occasion I have succeeded. May I introduce you?"
"This is Firenze,” said Dumbledore happily to a thunderstruck Umbridge. “I think you’ll find him suitable."
"Not really,” said Hermione indifferently, who was reading the Daily Prophet. “I’ve never really liked horses."
"He’s not a horse, he’s a centaur!"
"A gorgeous centaur . . ."
"Either way, he’s still got four legs,” said Hermione coolly. “Anyway, I thought you two were all upset that Trelawney had gone?"
"We are!” Lavender assured her. “We went up to her office to see her, we took her some daffodils — not the honking ones that Sprout’s got, nice ones . . ."
"How is she?"
"Not very good, poor thing,” said Lavender sympathetically. “She was crying and saying she’d rather leave the castle forever than stay here if Umbridge is still here, and I don’t blame her. Umbridge was horrible to her, wasn’t she?"
"I’ve got a feeling Umbridge has only just started being horrible,"
"Impossible,” said Ron, who was tucking into a large plate of eggs and bacon. “She can’t get any worse than she’s been already."
"You mark my words, she’s going to want revenge on Dumbledore for appointing a new teacher without consulting her,” said Hermione, closing the newspaper. “Especially another part-human. You saw the look on her face when she saw Firenze . . ."
"Aren’t we going up to North Tower?"
"How d’you expect Firenze to climb that ladder? We’re in classroom eleven now, it was on the notice board yesterday."
"What the — ?"
"Harry Potter,"
"Er — hi,” said Harry, shaking hands with the centaur, who surveyed him unblinkingly through those astonishingly blue eyes but did not smile. “Er — good to see you . . ."
"And you,” said the centaur, inclining his white-blond head. “It was foretold that we would meet again."
"Professor Dumbledore has kindly arranged this classroom for us,” said Firenze, when everyone had settled down, “in imitation of my natural habitat. I would have preferred to teach you in the Forbidden Forest, which was — until Monday — my home . . . but this is not possible."
"Please — er — sir —” said Parvati breathlessly, raising her hand, “why not? We’ve been in there with Hagrid, we’re not frightened!"
"It is not a question of your bravery,” said Firenze, “but of my position. I can no longer return to the forest. My herd has banished me."
"Herd?” said Lavender in a confused voice, and Harry knew she was thinking of cows. “What — oh!” Comprehension dawned on her face. “There are more of you?"
"Did Hagrid breed you, like the thestrals?"
"I didn’t — I meant — sorry,"
"Centaurs are not the servants or playthings of humans,"
"Please, sir . . . why have the other centaurs banished you?"
"Because I have agreed to work for Professor Dumbledore,” said Firenze. “They see this as a betrayal of our kind."
"common mule."
"Let us begin,” said Firenze. He swished his long palomino tail, raised his hand toward the leafy canopy overhead then lowered it slowly, and as he did so, the light in the room dimmed, so that they now seemed to be sitting in a forest clearing by twilight, and stars emerged upon the ceiling. There were oohs and gasps, and Ron said audibly, “Blimey!"
"Lie back upon the floor,” said Firenze in his calm voice, “and observe the heavens. Here is written, for those who can see, the fortune of our races."
"I know that you have learned the names of the planets and their moons in Astronomy,” said Firenze’s calm voice, “and that you have mapped the stars’ progress through the heavens. Centaurs have unraveled the mysteries of these movements over centuries. Our findings teach us that the future may be glimpsed in the sky above us . . ."
"Professor Trelawney did Astrology with us!” said Parvati excitedly, raising her hand in front of her so that it stuck up in the air as she lay on her back. “Mars causes accidents and burns and things like that, and when it makes an angle to Saturn, like now” — she drew a right angle in the air above her — “that means that people need to be extra careful when handling hot things —"
"That,” said Firenze calmly, “is human nonsense."
"Trivial hurts, tiny human accidents,” said Firenze, as his hooves thudded over the mossy floor. “These are of no more significance than the scurryings of ants to the wide universe, and are unaffected by planetary movements."
"Professor Trelawney —"
"— is a human,” said Firenze simply. “And is therefore blinkered and fettered by the limitations of your kind."
"Sybill Trelawney may have Seen, I do not know,” continued Firenze, and Harry heard the swishing of his tail again as he walked up and down before them, “but she wastes her time, in the main, on the self-flattering nonsense humans call fortune-telling. I, however, am here to explain the wisdom of centaurs, which is impersonal and impartial. We watch the skies for the great tides of evil or change that are sometimes marked there. It may take ten years to be sure of what we are seeing."
"In the past decade, the indications have been that Wizard-kind is living through nothing more than a brief calm between two wars. Mars, bringer of battle, shines brightly above us, suggesting that the fight must break out again soon. How soon, centaurs may attempt to divine by the burning of certain herbs and leaves, by the observation of fume and flame . . ."
"He’s not very definite on anything, is he?” said Ron in a low voice, as they put out their mallowsweet fire. “I mean, I could do with a few more details about this war we’re about to have, couldn’t you?"
"Harry Potter, a word, please."
"You may stay,” Firenze told him. “But close the door, please."
"Harry Potter, you are a friend of Hagrid’s, are you not?"
"Yes,"
"Then give him a warning from me. His attempt is not working. He would do better to abandon it."
"His attempt is not working?"
"And he would do better to abandon it,” said Firenze, nodding. “I would warn Hagrid myself, but I am banished — it would be unwise for me to go too near the forest now — Hagrid has troubles enough, without a centaurs’ battle."
"But — what’s Hagrid attempting to do?"
"Hagrid has recently rendered me a great service,” said Firenze, “and he has long since earned my respect for the care he shows all living creatures. I shall not betray his secret. But he must be brought to his senses. The attempt is not working. Tell him, Harry Potter. Good day to you."
"Nice bloke, Firenze,” he said gruffly, “but he don’ know what he’s talkin’ abou’ on this. The attemp’s comin’ on fine."
"Hagrid, what’re you up to?” asked Harry seriously. “Because you’ve got to be careful, Umbridge has already sacked Trelawney and if you ask me, she’s on a roll. If you’re doing anything you shouldn’t be —"
"There’s things more importan’ than keepin’ a job,” said Hagrid, though his hands shook slightly as he said this and a basin full of knarl droppings crashed to the floor. “Don’ worry abou’ me, Harry, jus’ get along now, there’s a good lad . . ."
"Outstanding"
"Oh, don’t be such a killjoy,” said Cho brightly, watching her silvery swan-shaped Patronus soar around the Room of Requirement during their last lesson before Easter. “They’re so pretty!"
"They’re not supposed to be pretty, they’re supposed to protect you,” said Harry patiently. “What we really need is a boggart or something; that’s how I learned, I had to conjure a Patronus while the boggart was pretending to be a dementor —"
"But that would be really scary!” said Lavender, who was shooting puffs of silver vapor out of the end of her wand. “And I still — can’t — do it!"
"You’ve got to think of something happy,"
"I’m trying,"
"Harry, I think I’m doing it!” yelled Seamus, who had been brought along to his first ever D.A. meeting by Dean. “Look — ah — it’s gone. . . . But it was definitely something hairy, Harry!"
"They are sort of nice, aren’t they?"
"Hi, Dobby!” he said. “What are you — what’s wrong?"
"Harry Potter, sir . . .” squeaked the elf, trembling from head to foot, “Harry Potter, sir . . . Dobby has come to warn you . . . but the house-elves have been warned not to tell . . ."
"What’s happened, Dobby?"
"Harry Potter . . . she . . . she . . ."
"Who’s ‘she,’ Dobby?"
"she"
"Umbridge?"
"What about her? Dobby — she hasn’t found out about this — about us — about the D.A.?"
"Is she coming?"
"Yes, Harry Potter, yes!"
"WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?” Harry bellowed. “RUN!"
"Harry, come on!"
"Dobby — this is an order — get back down to the kitchen with the other elves, and if she asks you whether you warned me, lie and say no!” said Harry. “And I forbid you to hurt yourself!"
"Thank you, Harry Potter!"
"AAARGH!"
"Trip Jinx, Potter!” he said. “Hey, Professor — PROFESSOR! I’ve got one!"
"It’s him!” she said jubilantly at the sight of Harry on the floor. “Excellent, Draco, excellent, oh, very good — fifty points to Slytherin! I’ll take him from here. . . . Stand up, Potter!"
"You hop along and see if you can round up anymore of them, Draco,” she said. “Tell the others to look in the library — anybody out of breath — check the bathrooms, Miss Parkinson can do the girls’ ones — off you go — and you,” she added in her softest, most dangerous voice, as Malfoy walked away. “You can come with me to the headmaster’s office, Potter."
"Fizzing Whizbee,"
"Well,” he said. “Well, well, well . . ."
"He was heading back to Gryffindor Tower,” said Umbridge. There was an indecent excitement in her voice, the same callous pleasure Harry had heard as she watched Professor Trelawney dissolving with misery in the entrance hall. “The Malfoy boy cornered him."
"Did he, did he?” said Fudge appreciatively. “I must remember to tell Lucius. Well, Potter . . . I expect you know why you are here?"
"yes"
"Yeh — no."
"I beg your pardon?"
"No,"
"You don’t know why you are here?"
"No, I don’t,"
"So you have no idea,” said Fudge in a voice positively sagging with sarcasm, “why Professor Umbridge has brought you to this office? You are not aware that you have broken any school rules?"
"School rules?” said Harry. “No."
"Or Ministry decrees?"
"Not that I’m aware of,"
"So it’s news to you, is it,” said Fudge, his voice now thick with anger, “that an illegal student organization has been discovered within this school?"
"Yes, it is,"
"I think, Minister,” said Umbridge silkily from beside him, “we might make better progress if I fetch our informant."
"Yes, yes, do,” said Fudge, nodding, and he glanced maliciously at Dumbledore as Umbridge left the room. “There’s nothing like a good witness, is there, Dumbledore?"
"Nothing at all, Cornelius,"
"Don’t be scared, dear, don’t be frightened,” said Professor Umbridge softly, patting her on the back, “it’s quite all right, now. You have done the right thing. The Minister is very pleased with you. He’ll be telling your mother what a good girl you’ve been. Marietta’s mother, Minister,” she added, looking up at Fudge, “is Madam Edgecombe from the Department of Magical Transportation. Floo Network office — she’s been helping us police the Hogwarts fires, you know."
"Jolly good, jolly good!” said Fudge heartily. “Like mother, like daughter, eh? Well, come on, now, dear, look up, don’t be shy, let’s hear what you’ve got to — galloping gargoyles!"
"SNEAK."
"Never mind the spots now, dear,” said Umbridge impatiently, “just take your robes away from your mouth and tell the Minister —"
"Oh, very well, you silly girl, I’ll tell him,” snapped Umbridge. She hitched her sickly smile back onto her face and said, “Well, Minister, Miss Edgecombe here came to my office shortly after dinner this evening and told me she had something she wanted to tell me. She said that if I proceeded to a secret room on the seventh floor, sometimes known as the Room of Requirement, I would find out something to my advantage. I questioned her a little further and she admitted that there was to be some kind of meeting there. Unfortunately at that point this hex,” she waved impatiently at Marietta’s concealed face, “came into operation and upon catching sight of her face in my mirror the girl became too distressed to tell me any more."
"Well, now,” said Fudge, fixing Marietta with what he evidently imagined was a kind and fatherly look. “It is very brave of you, my dear, coming to tell Professor Umbridge, you did exactly the right thing. Now, will you tell me what happened at this meeting? What was its purpose? Who was there?"
"Haven’t we got a counterjinx for this?” Fudge asked Umbridge impatiently, gesturing at Marietta’s face. “So she can speak freely?"
"I have not yet managed to find one,"
"You will remember, Minister, that I sent you a report back in October that Potter had met a number of fellow students in the Hog’s Head in Hogsmeade —"
"And what is your evidence for that?"
"I have testimony from Willy Widdershins, Minerva, who happened to be in the bar at the time. He was heavily bandaged, it is true, but his hearing was quite unimpaired,” said Umbridge smugly. “He heard every word Potter said and hastened straight to the school to report to me —"
"Oh, so that’s why he wasn’t prosecuted for setting up all those regurgitating toilets!” said Professor McGonagall, raising her eyebrows. “What an interesting insight into our justice system!"
"Blatant corruption!” roared the portrait of the corpulent, red-nosed wizard on the wall behind Dumbledore’s desk. “The Ministry did not cut deals with petty criminals in my day, no sir, they did not!"
"Thank you, Fortescue, that will do,"
"The purpose of Potter’s meeting with these students,” continued Professor Umbridge, “was to persuade them to join an illegal society, whose aim was to learn spells and curses the Ministry has decided are inappropriate for school-age —"
"I think you’ll find you’re wrong there, Dolores,"
"Oho!” said Fudge, bouncing up and down on the balls of his feet again. “Yes, do let’s hear the latest cock-and-bull story designed to pull Potter out of trouble! Go on, then, Dumbledore, go on — Willy Widdershins was lying, was he? Or was it Potter’s identical twin in the Hog’s Head that day? Or is there the usual simple explanation involving a reversal of time, a dead man coming back to life, and a couple of invisible dementors?"
"Oh, very good, Minister, very good!"
"Cornelius, I do not deny — and nor, I am sure, does Harry — that he was in the Hog’s Head that day, nor that he was trying to recruit students to a Defense Against the Dark Arts group. I am merely pointing out that Dolores is quite wrong to suggest that such a group was, at that time, illegal. If you remember, the Ministry decree banning all student societies was not put into effect until two days after Harry’s Hogsmeade meeting, so he was not breaking any rules in the Hog’s Head at all."
"That’s all very fine, Headmaster,” she said, smiling sweetly. “But we are now nearly six months on from the introduction of Educational Decree Number Twenty-four. If the first meeting was not illegal, all those that have happened since most certainly are."
"Well,” said Dumbledore, surveying her with polite interest over the top of his interlocked fingers, “they certainly would be, if they had continued after the decree came into effect. Do you have any evidence that these meetings continued?"
"Evidence?” repeated Umbridge with that horrible wide toadlike smile. “Have you not been listening, Dumbledore? Why do you think Miss Edgecombe is here?"
"Oh, can she tell us about six months’ worth of meetings?” said Dumbledore, raising his eyebrows. “I was under the impression that she was merely reporting a meeting tonight."
"Miss Edgecombe,” said Umbridge at once, “tell us how long these meetings have been going on, dear. You can simply nod or shake your head, I’m sure that won’t make the spots worse. Have they been happening regularly over the last six months?"
"Just nod or shake your head, dear,” Umbridge said coaxingly to Marietta. “Come on, now, that won’t activate the jinx further . . ."
"I don’t think you understood the question, did you, dear? I’m asking whether you’ve been going to these meetings for the past six months? You have, haven’t you?"
"What do you mean by shaking your head, dear?"
"I would have thought her meaning was quite clear,” said Professor McGonagall harshly. “There have been no secret meetings for the past six months. Is that correct, Miss Edgecombe?"
"But there was a meeting tonight!” said Umbridge furiously. “There was a meeting, Miss Edgecombe, you told me about it, in the Room of Requirement! And Potter was the leader, was he not, Potter organized it, Potter — why are you shaking your head, girl?"
"Well, usually when a person shakes their head,” said McGonagall coldly, “they mean ‘no.’ So unless Miss Edgecombe is using a form of sign language as yet unknown to humans —"
"I cannot allow you to manhandle my students, Dolores,"
"You want to calm yourself, Madam Umbridge,” said Kingsley in his deep, slow voice. “You don’t want to get yourself into trouble now."
"No,” said Umbridge breathlessly, glancing up at the towering figure of Kingsley. “I mean, yes — you’re right, Shacklebolt — I — I forgot myself."
"Dolores,” said Fudge, with the air of trying to settle something once and for all, “the meeting tonight — the one we know definitely happened —"
"Yes,” said Umbridge, pulling herself together, “yes . . . well, Miss Edgecombe tipped me off and I proceeded at once to the seventh floor, accompanied by certain trustworthy students, so as to catch those in the meeting red-handed. It appears that they were forewarned of my arrival, however, because when we reached the seventh floor they were running in every direction. It does not matter, however. I have all their names here, Miss Parkinson ran into the Room of Requirement for me to see if they had left anything behind. . . . We needed evidence and the room provided . . ."
"The moment I saw Potter’s name on the list, I knew what we were dealing with,"
"Excellent,” said Fudge, a smile spreading across his face. “Excellent, Dolores. And . . . by thunder . . ."
"See what they’ve named themselves?” said Fudge quietly. “Dumbledore’s Army."
"Well, the game is up,” he said simply. “Would you like a written confession from me, Cornelius — or will a statement before these witnesses suffice?"
"Statement?” said Fudge slowly. “What — I don’t — ?"
"Dumbledore’s Army, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, still smiling as he waved the list of names before Fudge’s face. “Not Potter’s Army. Dumbledore’s Army."
"But — but —"
"You?"
"That’s right,"
"You organized this?"
"I did,"
"You recruited these students for — for your army?"
"Tonight was supposed to be the first meeting,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Merely to see whether they would be interested in joining me. I see now that it was a mistake to invite Miss Edgecombe, of course."
"Then you have been plotting against me!"
"That’s right,"
"NO!"
"No — Professor Dumbledore!"
"Be quiet, Harry, or I am afraid you will have to leave my office,"
"Yes, shut up, Potter!” barked Fudge, who was still ogling Dumbledore with a kind of horrified delight. “Well, well, well — I came here tonight expecting to expel Potter and instead —"
"Instead you get to arrest me,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “It’s like losing a Knut and finding a Galleon, isn’t it?"
"Weasley!” cried Fudge, now positively quivering with delight, “Weasley, have you written it all down, everything he’s said, his confession, have you got it?"
"Yes, sir, I think so, sir!"
"The bit about how he’s been trying to build up an army against the Ministry, how he’s been working to destabilize me?"
"Yes, sir, I’ve got it, yes!"
"Very well, then,” said Fudge, now radiant with glee. “Duplicate your notes, Weasley, and send a copy to the Daily Prophet at once. If we send a fast owl we should make the morning edition!” Percy dashed from the room, slamming the door behind him, and Fudge turned back to Dumbledore. “You will now be escorted back to the Ministry, where you will be formally charged and then sent to Azkaban to await trial!"
"Ah,” said Dumbledore gently, “yes. Yes, I thought we might hit that little snag."
"Snag?” said Fudge, his voice still vibrating with joy. “I see no snag, Dumbledore!"
"Well,” said Dumbledore apologetically, “I’m afraid I do."
"Oh really?"
"Well — it’s just that you seem to be laboring under the delusion that I am going to — what is the phrase? ‘Come quietly.’ I am afraid I am not going to come quietly at all, Cornelius. I have absolutely no intention of being sent to Azkaban. I could break out, of course — but what a waste of time, and frankly, I can think of a whole host of things I would rather be doing."
"Don’t be silly, Dawlish,” said Dumbledore kindly. “I’m sure you are an excellent Auror, I seem to remember that you achieved ‘Outstanding’ in all your N.E.W.T.s, but if you attempt to — er — ‘bring me in’ by force, I will have to hurt you."
"So,” sneered Fudge, recovering himself, “you intend to take on Dawlish, Shacklebolt, Dolores, and myself single-handed, do you, Dumbledore?"
"Merlin’s beard, no,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “Not unless you are foolish enough to force me to."
"He will not be single-handed!"
"Oh yes he will, Minerva!” said Dumbledore sharply. “Hogwarts needs you!"
"Enough of this rubbish!” said Fudge, pulling out his own wand. “Dawlish! Shacklebolt! Take him!"
"No!"
"Are you all right?"
"Yes!"
"Unfortunately, I had to hex Kingsley too, or it would have looked very suspicious,"
"Now, they will all awake very soon and it will be best if they do not know that we had time to communicate — you must act as though no time has passed, as though they were merely knocked to the ground, they will not remember —"
"Where will you go, Dumbledore?” whispered Professor McGonagall. “Grimmauld Place?"
"Oh no,” said Dumbledore with a grim smile. “I am not leaving to go into hiding. Fudge will soon wish he’d never dislodged me from Hogwarts, I promise you . . ."
"Professor Dumbledore . . ."
"Listen to me, Harry,” he said urgently, “you must study Occlumency as hard as you can, do you understand me? Do everything Professor Snape tells you and practice it particularly every night before sleeping so that you can close your mind to bad dreams — you will understand why soon enough, but you must promise me —"
"Remember — close your mind —"
"— you will understand,"
"Where is he?” yelled Fudge, pushing himself up from the ground. “Where is he?"
"I don’t know!"
"Well, he can’t have Disapparated!” cried Umbridge. “You can’t inside this school —"
"The stairs!"
"Well, Minerva,” said Fudge nastily, straightening his torn shirtsleeve, “I’m afraid this is the end of your friend Dumbledore."
"You think so, do you?"
"You’d better get those two off to bed,"
"You know, Minister, I disagree with Dumbledore on many counts . . . but you cannot deny he’s got style . . ."
"Dumbledore will be back before long,” said Ernie Macmillan confidently on the way back from Herbology after listening intently to Harry’s story. “They couldn’t keep him away in our second year and they won’t be able to this time. The Fat Friar told me . . .” He dropped his voice conspiratorially, so that Harry, Ron, and Hermione had to lean closer to him to hear, “. . . that Umbridge tried to get back into his office last night after they’d searched the castle and grounds for him. Couldn’t get past the gargoyle. The Head’s office has sealed itself against her.” Ernie smirked. “Apparently she had a right little tantrum . . ."
"Oh, I expect she really fancied herself sitting up there in the Head’s office,” said Hermione viciously, as they walked up the stone steps into the entrance hall. “Lording it over all the other teachers, the stupid puffed-up, power-crazy old —"
"Now, do you really want to finish that sentence, Granger?"
"Afraid I’m going to have to dock a few points from Gryffindor and Hufflepuff,"
"You can’t take points from fellow prefects, Malfoy,"
"I know prefects can’t dock points from each other,” sneered Malfoy; Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. “But members of the Inquisitorial Squad —"
"The what?"
"The Inquisitorial Squad, Granger,” said Malfoy, pointing toward a tiny silver I upon his robes just beneath his prefect’s badge. “A select group of students who are supportive of the Ministry of Magic, hand-picked by Professor Umbridge. Anyway, members of the Inquisitorial Squad do have the power to dock points. . . . So, Granger, I’ll have five from you for being rude about our new headmistress. . . . Macmillan, five for contradicting me. . . . Five because I don’t like you, Potter . . . Weasley, your shirt’s untucked, so I’ll have another five for that. . . . Oh yeah, I forgot, you’re a Mudblood, Granger, so ten for that . . ."
"Don’t!"
"Wise move, Granger,” breathed Malfoy. “New Head, new times . . . Be good now, Potty . . . Weasel King . . ."
"He was bluffing,” said Ernie, looking appalled. “He can’t be allowed to dock points . . . that would be ridiculous. . . . It would completely undermine the prefect system . . ."
"Noticed, have you?"
"Malfoy just docked us all about fifty points,"
"Yeah, Montague tried to do us during break,"
"What do you mean, ‘tried’?"
"He never managed to get all the words out,” said Fred, “due to the fact that we forced him headfirst into that Vanishing Cabinet on the first floor."
"But you’ll get into terrible trouble!"
"Not until Montague reappears, and that could take weeks, I dunno where we sent him,” said Fred coolly. “Anyway . . . we’ve decided we don’t care about getting into trouble anymore."
"Have you ever?"
"’Course we have,” said George. “Never been expelled, have we?"
"We’ve always known where to draw the line,"
"We might have put a toe across it occasionally,"
"But we’ve always stopped short of causing real mayhem,"
"But now?"
"Well, now —"
"— what with Dumbledore gone —"
"— we reckon a bit of mayhem —"
"— is exactly what our dear new Head deserves,"
"You mustn’t!” whispered Hermione. “You really mustn’t! She’d love a reason to expel you!"
"You don’t get it, Hermione, do you?” said Fred, smiling at her. “We don’t care about staying anymore. We’d walk out right now if we weren’t determined to do our bit for Dumbledore first. So anyway,” he checked his watch, “phase one is about to begin. I’d get in the Great Hall for lunch if I were you, that way the teachers will see you can’t have had anything to do with it."
"Anything to do with what?"
"You’ll see,” said George. “Run along, now."
"I think we should get out of here, you know,” said Hermione nervously. “Just in case . . ."
"Yeah, all right,"
"The headmistress would like to see you, Potter,"
"I didn’t do it,"
"Guilty conscience, eh?” he wheezed. “Follow me . . ."
"Things are changing around here, Potter."
"I’ve noticed,"
"Yerse . . . I’ve been telling Dumbledore for years and years he’s too soft with you all,” said Filch, chuckling nastily. “You filthy little beasts would never have dropped Stinkpellets if you’d known I had it in my power to whip you raw, would you, now? Nobody would have thought of throwing Fanged Frisbees down the corridors if I could’ve strung you up by the ankles in my office, would they? But when Educational Decree Twenty-nine comes in, Potter, I’ll be allowed to do them things. . . . And she’s asked the Minister to sign an order for the expulsion of Peeves. . . . Oh, things are going to be very different around here with her in charge . . ."
"Here we are,” he said, leering down at Harry as he rapped three times upon Professor Umbridge’s door and pushed it open. “The Potter boy to see you, ma’am."
"Thank you, Argus,"
"Not at all, ma’am, not at all,"
"Sit,"
"Well now,” she said finally, setting down her quill and looking like a toad about to swallow a particularly juicy fly. “What would you like to drink?"
"What?"
"To drink, Mr. Potter,” she said, smiling still more widely. “Tea? Coffee? Pumpkin juice?"
"Nothing, thank you,"
"I wish you to have a drink with me,” she said, her voice becoming more dangerously sweet. “Choose one."
"Fine . . . tea then,"
"There,” she said, handing it to him. “Drink it before it gets cold, won’t you? Well, now, Mr. Potter . . . I thought we ought to have a little chat, after the distressing events of last night."
"You’re not drinking up!"
"What’s the matter?” said Umbridge, who was still watching him. “Do you want sugar?"
"No,"
"Good,” she whispered. “Very good. Now then . . .” She leaned forward a little. “Where is Albus Dumbledore?"
"No idea,"
"Drink up, drink up,” she said, still smiling. “Now, Mr. Potter, let us not play childish games. I know that you know where he has gone. You and Dumbledore have been in this together from the beginning. Consider your position, Mr. Potter . . ."
"I don’t know where he is."
"Very well,” said Umbridge, looking displeased. “In that case, you will kindly tell me the whereabouts of Sirius Black."
"I don’t know,"
"Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge, “let me remind you that it was I who almost caught the criminal Black in the Gryffindor fire in October. I know perfectly well it was you he was meeting and if I had had any proof neither of you would be at large today, I promise you. I repeat, Mr. Potter . . . Where is Sirius Black?"
"No idea,” said Harry loudly. “Haven’t got a clue."
"Very well, Potter, I will take your word for it this time, but be warned: The might of the Ministry stands behind me. All channels of communication in and out of this school are being monitored. A Floo Network Regulator is keeping watch over every fire in Hogwarts — except my own, of course. My Inquisitorial Squad is opening and reading all owl post entering and leaving the castle. And Mr. Filch is observing all secret passages in and out of the castle. If I find a shred of evidence . . ."
"What was — ?"
"Back to lunch with you, Potter!"
"Hurry, Filch, hurry!” shrieked Umbridge. “They’ll be all over the school unless we do something — Stupefy!"
"Don’t Stun them, Filch!"
"Right you are, Headmistress!"
"Impressive,” Harry said quietly, grinning. “Very impressive . . . You’ll put Dr. Filibuster out of business, no problem . . ."
"Cheers,” whispered George, wiping tears of laughter from his face. “Oh, I hope she tries Vanishing them next. . . . They multiply by ten every time you try . . ."
"Dear, dear,” said Professor McGonagall sardonically, as one of the dragons soared around her classroom, emitting loud bangs and exhaling flame. “Miss Brown, would you mind running along to the headmistress and informing her that we have an escaped firework in our classroom?"
"Thank you so much, Professor!” said Professor Flitwick in his squeaky little voice. “I could have got rid of the sparklers myself, of course, but I wasn’t sure whether I had the authority . . ."
"They were wonderful fireworks,"
"Thanks,” said George, looking both surprised and pleased. “Weasleys’ Wildfire Whiz-Bangs. Only thing is, we used our whole stock, we’re going to have to start again from scratch now . . ."
"It was worth it, though,” said Fred, who was taking orders from clamoring Gryffindors. “If you want to add your name to the waiting list, Hermione, it’s five Galleons for your Basic Blaze box and twenty for the Deflagration Deluxe . . ."
"Oh, why don’t we have a night off?” said Hermione brightly, as a silver-tailed Weasley rocket zoomed past the window. “After all, the Easter holidays start on Friday, we’ll have plenty of time then . . ."
"Are you feeling all right?"
"Now you mention it,” said Hermione happily, “d’you know . . . I think I’m feeling a bit . . . rebellious."
"POO"
"Cool!” said Seamus, who was silhouetted against the window. “I think one of those Catherine wheels hit a rocket and it’s like they mated, come and see!"
"Over here,” said Harry, glad of a reason to postpone his meeting with Snape and beckoning her across to the corner of the entrance hall where the giant hourglasses stood. Gryffindor’s was now almost empty. “Are you okay? Umbridge hasn’t been asking you about the D.A., has she?"
"Oh no,” said Cho hurriedly. “No, it was only . . . Well, I just wanted to say . . . Harry, I never dreamed Marietta would tell . . ."
"Yeah, well,"
"She’s a lovely person really,” said Cho. “She just made a mistake —"
"A lovely person who made a mistake? She sold us all out, including you!"
"Well . . . we all got away, didn’t we?” said Cho pleadingly. “You know, her mum works for the Ministry, it’s really difficult for her —"
"Ron’s dad works for the Ministry too!” Harry said furiously. “And in case you hadn’t noticed, he hasn’t got ‘sneak’ written across his face —"
"That was a really horrible trick of Hermione Granger’s,” said Cho fiercely. “She should have told us she’d jinxed that list —"
"I think it was a brilliant idea,"
"Oh yes, I forgot — of course, if it was darling Hermione’s idea —"
"Don’t start crying again,"
"I wasn’t going to!"
"Yeah . . . well . . . good,” he said. “I’ve got enough to cope with at the moment."
"Go and cope with it then!"
"You’re late, Potter,"
"So,” he said. “Have you been practicing?"
"Yes,"
"Well, we’ll soon find out, won’t we?” said Snape smoothly. “Wand out, Potter."
"On the count of three then,” said Snape lazily. “One — two —"
"Professor Snape, sir — oh — sorry —"
"It’s all right, Draco,” said Snape, lowering his wand. “Potter is here for a little Remedial Potions."
"I didn’t know,"
"Well, Draco, what is it?"
"It’s Professor Umbridge, sir — she needs your help,” said Malfoy. “They’ve found Montague, sir. He’s turned up jammed inside a toilet on the fourth floor."
"How did he get in there?"
"I don’t know, sir, he’s a bit confused . . ."
"Very well, very well — Potter,” said Snape, “we shall resume this lesson tomorrow evening instead."
"Remedial Potions?"
"Five more minutes!"
"Quills down, please!” squeaked Professor Flitwick. “That means you too, Stebbins! Please remain seated while I collect your parchment! Accio!"
"Thank you . . . thank you,” panted Professor Flitwick. “Very well, everybody, you’re free to go!"
"Did you like question ten, Moony?"
"Loved it,” said Lupin briskly. “‘Give five signs that identify the werewolf.’ Excellent question."
"D’you think you managed to get all the signs?"
"Think I did,” said Lupin seriously, as they joined the crowd thronging around the front doors eager to get out into the sunlit grounds. “One: He’s sitting on my chair. Two: He’s wearing my clothes. Three: His name’s Remus Lupin . . .’"
"I got the snout shape, the pupils of the eyes, and the tufted tail,” he said anxiously, “but I couldn’t think what else —"
"How thick are you, Wormtail?” said James impatiently. “You run round with a werewolf once a month —"
"Keep your voice down,"
"Well, I thought that paper was a piece of cake,” he heard Sirius say. “I’ll be surprised if I don’t get Outstanding on it at least."
"Me too,"
"Where’d you get that?"
"Nicked it,"
"Put that away, will you?” said Sirius finally, as James made a fine catch and Wormtail let out a cheer. “Before Wormtail wets himself from excitement."
"If it bothers you,"
"I’m bored,” said Sirius. “Wish it was full moon."
"You might,” said Lupin darkly from behind his book. “We’ve still got Transfiguration, if you’re bored you could test me . . . Here."
"I don’t need to look at that rubbish, I know it all."
"This’ll liven you up, Padfoot,” said James quietly. “Look who it is . . ."
"Excellent,” he said softly. “Snivellus."
"All right, Snivellus?"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Impedimenta!"
"How’d the exam go, Snivelly?"
"I was watching him, his nose was touching the parchment,” said Sirius viciously. “There’ll be great grease marks all over it, they won’t be able to read a word."
"You — wait,” he panted, staring up at James with an expression of purest loathing. “You — wait . . ."
"Wait for what?” said Sirius coolly. “What’re you going to do, Snivelly, wipe your nose on us?"
"Wash out your mouth,” said James coldly. “Scourgify!"
"Leave him ALONE!"
"All right, Evans?"
"Leave him alone,” Lily repeated. She was looking at James with every sign of great dislike. “What’s he done to you?"
"Well,” said James, appearing to deliberate the point, “it’s more the fact that he exists, if you know what I mean . . ."
"You think you’re funny,” she said coldly. “But you’re just an arrogant, bullying toerag, Potter. Leave him alone."
"I will if you go out with me, Evans,” said James quickly. “Go on . . . Go out with me, and I’ll never lay a wand on old Snivelly again."
"I wouldn’t go out with you if it was a choice between you and the giant squid,"
"Bad luck, Prongs,” said Sirius briskly, turning back to Snape. “OY!"
"Let him down!"
"Certainly,” said James and he jerked his wand upward. Snape fell into a crumpled heap on the ground. Disentangling himself from his robes, he got quickly to his feet, wand up, but Sirius said, “Petrificus Totalus!"
"LEAVE HIM ALONE!"
"Ah, Evans, don’t make me hex you,"
"Take the curse off him, then!"
"There you go,” he said, as Snape struggled to his feet again, “you’re lucky Evans was here, Snivellus —"
"I don’t need help from filthy little Mudbloods like her!"
"Fine,” she said coolly. “I won’t bother in future. And I’d wash your pants if I were you, Snivellus."
"Apologize to Evans!"
"I don’t want you to make him apologize,” Lily shouted, rounding on James. “You’re as bad as he is . . ."
"What?” yelped James. “I’d NEVER call you a — you-know-what!"
"Messing up your hair because you think it looks cool to look like you’ve just got off your broomstick, showing off with that stupid Snitch, walking down corridors and hexing anyone who annoys you just because you can — I’m surprised your broomstick can get off the ground with that fat head on it. You make me SICK."
"Evans!” James shouted after her, “Hey, EVANS!"
"What is it with her?"
"Reading between the lines, I’d say she thinks you’re a bit conceited, mate,"
"Right,” said James, who looked furious now, “right —"
"Who wants to see me take off Snivelly’s pants?"
"Having fun?"
"So,” said Snape, gripping Harry’s arm so tightly Harry’s hand was starting to feel numb. “So . . . been enjoying yourself, Potter?"
"N-no . . ."
"Amusing man, your father, wasn’t he?"
"I — didn’t —"
"You will not tell anybody what you saw!"
"No,” said Harry, getting to his feet as far from Snape as he could. “No, of course I w —"
"Get out, get out, I don’t want to see you in this office ever again!"
"I’ve told you,” Harry muttered. “Snape reckons I can carry on by myself now I’ve got the basics . . ."
"So you’ve stopped having funny dreams?"
"Pretty much,"
"Well, I don’t think Snape should stop until you’re absolutely sure you can control them!” said Hermione indignantly. “Harry, I think you should go back to him and ask —"
"No,” said Harry forcefully. “Just drop it, Hermione, okay?"
"How can that come as a shock?"
"I dunno . . .” said Ron, “there’s been a lot going on . . ."
"Well, there you are,” she said, handing him his schedule, “if you follow that you should do fine."
"You’ve given me an evening off every week!"
"That’s for Quidditch practice,"
"What’s the point?” he said. “We’ve got about as much chance of winning the Quidditch Cup this year as Dad’s got of becoming Minister of Magic . . ."
"What’s wrong, Harry?"
"What?” he said quickly. “Nothing . . ."
"I saw Cho earlier,” said Hermione tentatively, “and she looked really miserable too. . . . Have you two had a row again?"
"Wha — oh yeah, we have,"
"What about?"
"That sneak friend of hers, Marietta,"
"Yeah, well, I don’t blame you!” said Ron angrily, setting down his study schedule. “If it hadn’t been for her . . ."
"yeah” and “that’s right"
"What’s he done to you?” And hadn’t James replied, “It’s more the fact that he exists, if you know what I mean?"
"Harry, I’m talking to you, can you hear me?"
"Huh?"
"Oh hi,” said Harry, pulling his books back toward him. “How come you’re not at practice?"
"It’s over,” said Ginny. “Ron had to take Jack Sloper up to the hospital wing."
"Why?"
"Well, we’re not sure, but we think he knocked himself out with his own bat.” She sighed heavily. “Anyway . . . a package just arrived, it’s only just got through Umbridge’s new screening process . . ."
"It’s Easter eggs from Mum,” said Ginny. “There’s one for you. . . . There you go . . ."
"Are you okay, Harry?"
"Yeah, I’m fine,"
"You seem really down lately,” Ginny persisted. “You know, I’m sure if you just talked to Cho . . ."
"It’s not Cho I want to talk to,"
"Who is it, then?"
"I . . ."
"I wish I could talk to Sirius,” he muttered. “But I know I can’t."
"Well,” said Ginny slowly, helping herself to a bit of egg too, “if you really want to talk to Sirius, I expect we could think of a way to do it . . ."
"Come on,” said Harry hopelessly. “With Umbridge policing the fires and reading all our mail?"
"The thing about growing up with Fred and George,” said Ginny thoughtfully, “is that you sort of start thinking anything’s possible if you’ve got enough nerve."
"WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU ARE DOING?"
"Oh damn,” whispered Ginny, jumping to her feet. “I forgot —"
"Chocolate in the library!” she screamed. “Out — out — OUT!"
"Well, I don’t fancy Healing,” said Ron on the last evening of the holidays. He was immersed in a leaflet that carried the crossed bone-and-wand emblem of St. Mungo’s on its front. “It says here you need at least an E at N.E.W.T. level in Potions, Herbology, Transfiguration, Charms, and Defense Against the Dark Arts. I mean . . . blimey. . . . Don’t want much, do they?"
"Well, it’s a very responsible job, isn’t it?” said Hermione absently. She was poring over a bright pink-and-orange leaflet that was headed SO YOU THINK YOU’D LIKE TO WORK IN MUGGLE RELATIONS? “You don’t seem to need many qualifications to liaise with Muggles. . . . All they want is an O.W.L. in Muggle Studies . . . ‘Much more important is your enthusiasm, patience, and a good sense of fun!’"
"You’d need more than a good sense of fun to liaise with my uncle,” said Harry darkly. “Good sense of when to duck, more like . . ."
"‘Are you seeking a challenging career involving travel, adventure, and substantial, danger-related treasure bonuses? Then consider a position with Gringotts Wizarding Bank, who are currently recruiting Curse-Breakers for thrilling opportunities abroad . . . ’ They want Arithmancy, though. . . . You could do it, Hermione!"
"I don’t much fancy banking,"
"Hey,” said a voice in Harry’s ear. He looked around; Fred and George had come to join them. “Ginny’s had a word with us about you,” said Fred, stretching out his legs on the table in front of them and causing several booklets on careers with the Ministry of Magic to slide off onto the floor. “She says you need to talk to Sirius?"
"What?"
"Yeah . . .” said Harry, trying to sound casual, “yeah, I thought I’d like —"
"Don’t be so ridiculous,” said Hermione, straightening up and looking at him as though she could not believe her eyes. “With Umbridge groping around in the fires and frisking all the owls?"
"Well, we think we can find a way around that,” said George, stretching and smiling. “It’s a simple matter of causing a diversion. Now, you might have noticed that we have been rather quiet on the mayhem front during the Easter holidays?"
"What was the point, we asked ourselves, of disrupting leisure time?” continued Fred. “No point at all, we answered ourselves. And of course, we’d have messed up people’s studying too, which would be the very last thing we’d want to do."
"But it’s business as usual from tomorrow,” Fred continued briskly. “And if we’re going to be causing a bit of uproar, why not do it so that Harry can have his chat with Sirius?"
"Yes, but still,” said Hermione with an air of explaining something very simple to somebody very obtuse, “even if you do cause a diversion, how is Harry supposed to talk to him?"
"Umbridge’s office,"
"Are — you — insane?"
"I don’t think so,"
"And how are you going to get in there in the first place?"
"Sirius’s knife,"
"Excuse me?"
"Christmas before last Sirius gave me a knife that’ll open any lock,” said Harry. “So even if she’s bewitched the door so Alohomora won’t work, which I bet she has —"
"What do you think about this?"
"I dunno,” said Ron, looking alarmed at being asked to give an opinion. “If Harry wants to do it, it’s up to him, isn’t it?"
"Spoken like a true friend and Weasley,” said Fred, clapping Ron hard on the back. “Right, then. We’re thinking of doing it tomorrow, just after lessons, because it should cause maximum impact if everybody’s in the corridors — Harry, we’ll set it off in the east wing somewhere, draw her right away from her own office — I reckon we should be able to guarantee you, what, twenty minutes?"
"Easy,"
"What sort of diversion is it?"
"You’ll see, little bro,” said Fred, as he and George got up again. “At least, you will if you trot along to Gregory the Smarmy’s corridor round about five o’clock tomorrow."
". . . and if she does catch you there, apart from being expelled, she’ll be able to guess you’ve been talking to Snuffles and this time I expect she’ll force you to drink Veritaserum and answer her questions . . ."
"Hermione,” said Ron in a low and indignant voice, “are you going to stop telling Harry off and listen to Binns, or am I going to have to take notes instead?"
"You take notes for a change, it won’t kill you!"
"Whoops,” he said softly. “Another zero, then, Potter . . ."
"I’m sorry!” said Hermione with her hands over her mouth. “I’m really sorry, Harry, I thought you’d finished, so I cleared up!"
"Sorry, Professor,” he panted, as he closed the door. “I forgot . . ."
"No matter, Potter,"
"Sit down, Potter,"
"Well, Potter, this meeting is to talk over any career ideas you might have, and to help you decide which subjects you should continue into sixth and seventh years,” said Professor McGonagall. “Have you had any thoughts about what you would like to do after you leave Hogwarts?"
"Er,"
"Yes?"
"Well, I thought of, maybe, being an Auror,"
"You’d need top grades for that,” said Professor McGonagall, extracting a small, dark leaflet from under the mass on her desk and opening it. “They ask for a minimum of five N.E.W.T.s, and nothing under ‘Exceeds Expectations’ grade, I see. Then you would be required to undergo a stringent series of character and aptitude tests at the Auror office. It’s a difficult career path, Potter; they only take the best. In fact, I don’t think anybody has been taken on in the last three years."
"You’ll want to know which subjects you ought to take, I suppose?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “Defense Against the Dark Arts, I suppose?"
"Naturally,” said Professor McGonagall crisply. “I would also advise —"
"I would also advise Transfiguration, because Aurors frequently need to Transfigure or Untransfigure in their work. And I ought to tell you now, Potter, that I do not accept students into my N.E.W.T. classes unless they have achieved ‘Exceeds Expectations’ or higher at Ordinary Wizarding Level. I’d say you’re averaging ‘Acceptable’ at the moment, so you’ll need to put in some good hard work before the exams to stand a chance of continuing. Then you ought to do Charms, always useful, and Potions. Yes, Potter, Potions,” she added, with the merest flicker of a smile. “Poisons and antidotes are essential study for Aurors. And I must tell you that Professor Snape absolutely refuses to take students who get anything other than ‘Outstanding’ in their O.W.L.s, so —"
"May I offer you a cough drop, Dolores?"
"Oh no, thank you very much,” said Umbridge, with that simpering laugh Harry hated so much. “I just wondered whether I could make the teensiest interruption, Minerva?"
"I daresay you’ll find you can,"
"I was just wondering whether Mr. Potter has quite the temperament for an Auror?"
"Were you?” said Professor McGonagall haughtily. “Well, Potter,” she continued, as though there had been no interruption, “if you are serious in this ambition, I would advise you to concentrate hard on bringing your Transfiguration and Potions up to scratch. I see Professor Flitwick has graded you between ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Exceeds Expectations’ for the last two years, so your Charm work seems satisfactory; as for Defense Against the Dark Arts, your marks have been generally high, Professor Lupin in particular thought you — are you quite sure you wouldn’t like a cough drop, Dolores?"
"Oh, no need, thank you, Minerva,” simpered Professor Umbridge, who had just coughed her loudest yet. “I was just concerned that you might not have Harry’s most recent Defense Against the Dark Arts marks in front of you. I’m quite sure I slipped in a note . . ."
"What, this thing?"
"Yes, as I was saying, Potter, Professor Lupin thought you showed a pronounced aptitude for the subject, and obviously for an Auror —"
"Did you not understand my note, Minerva?"
"Of course I understood it,"
"Well, then, I am confused. . . . I’m afraid I don’t quite understand how you can give Mr. Potter false hope that —"
"False hope?” repeated Professor McGonagall, still refusing to look round at Professor Umbridge. “He has achieved high marks in all his Defense Against the Dark Arts tests —"
"I’m terribly sorry to have to contradict you, Minerva, but as you will see from my note, Harry has been achieving very poor results in his classes with me —"
"I should have made my meaning plainer,” said Professor McGonagall, turning at last to look Umbridge directly in the eyes. “He has achieved high marks in all Defense Against the Dark Arts tests set by a competent teacher."
"Any questions, Potter?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “What sort of character and aptitude tests do the Ministry do on you, if you get enough N.E.W.T.s?"
"Well, you’ll need to demonstrate the ability to react well to pressure and so forth,” said Professor McGonagall, “perseverance and dedication, because Auror training takes a further three years, not to mention very high skills in practical defense. It will mean a lot more study even after you’ve left school, so unless you’re prepared to —"
"I think you’ll also find,” said Umbridge, her voice very cold now, “that the Ministry looks into the records of those applying to be Aurors. Their criminal records."
"— unless you’re prepared to take even more exams after Hogwarts, you should really look at another —"
"— which means that this boy has as much chance of becoming an Auror as Dumbledore has of ever returning to this school."
"A very good chance, then,"
"Potter has a criminal record,"
"Potter has been cleared of all charges,"
"Potter has no chance whatsoever of becoming an Auror!"
"Potter,” she said in ringing tones, “I will assist you to become an Auror if it is the last thing I do! If I have to coach you nightly I will make sure you achieve the required results!"
"The Minister of Magic will never employ Harry Potter!"
"There may well be a new Minister of Magic by the time Potter is ready to join!"
"Aha!” shrieked Professor Umbridge, pointing a stubby finger at McGonagall. “Yes! Yes, yes, yes! Of course! That’s what you want, isn’t it, Minerva McGonagall? You want Cornelius Fudge replaced by Albus Dumbledore! You think you’ll be where I am, don’t you, Senior Undersecretary to the Minister and headmistress to boot!"
"You are raving,” said Professor McGonagall, superbly disdainful. “Potter, that concludes our career consultation."
"I hope you’ve thought better of what you were planning to do, Harry,” Hermione whispered, the moment they had opened their books to chapter thirty-four (“Non-Retaliation and Negotiation”). “Umbridge looks like she’s in a really bad mood already . . ."
"Dumbledore sacrificed himself to keep you in school, Harry!” whispered Hermione, raising her book to hide her face from Umbridge. “And if you get thrown out today it will all have been for nothing!"
"You’re less like your father than I thought. . . . The risk would’ve been what made it fun for James . . ."
"Harry, don’t do it, please don’t do it!"
"Give it a rest, okay? He can make up his own mind."
"Harry — please!"
"Number twelve, Grimmauld Place!"
"Sirius?"
"Harry!” he said, looking thoroughly shocked. “What are you — what’s happened, is everything all right?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “I just wondered — I mean, I just fancied a — a chat with Sirius."
"I’ll call him,” said Lupin, getting to his feet, still looking perplexed. “He went upstairs to look for Kreacher, he seems to be hiding in the attic again . . ."
"What is it?” said Sirius urgently, sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes and dropping to the ground in front of the fire, so that he and Harry were on a level; Lupin knelt down too, looking very concerned. “Are you all right? Do you need help?"
"No,” said Harry, “it’s nothing like that. . . . I just wanted to talk . . . about my dad . . ."
"I wouldn’t like you to judge your father on what you saw there, Harry. He was only fifteen —"
"I’m fifteen!"
"Look, Harry,” said Sirius placatingly, “James and Snape hated each other from the moment they set eyes on each other, it was just one of those things, you can understand that, can’t you? I think James was everything Snape wanted to be — he was popular, he was good at Quidditch, good at pretty much everything. And Snape was just this little oddball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts and James — whatever else he may have appeared to you, Harry — always hated the Dark Arts."
"Yeah,” said Harry, “but he just attacked Snape for no good reason, just because — well, just because you said you were bored,"
"I’m not proud of it,"
"Look, Harry, what you’ve got to understand is that your father and Sirius were the best in the school at whatever they did — everyone thought they were the height of cool — if they sometimes got a bit carried away —"
"If we were sometimes arrogant little berks, you mean,"
"He kept messing up his hair,"
"I’d forgotten he used to do that,"
"Was he playing with the Snitch?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, watching uncomprehendingly as Sirius and Lupin beamed reminiscently. “Well . . . I thought he was a bit of an idiot."
"Of course he was a bit of an idiot!” said Sirius bracingly. “We were all idiots! Well — not Moony so much,"
"Did I ever tell you to lay off Snape?” he said. “Did I ever have the guts to tell you I thought you were out of order?"
"Yeah, well,” said Sirius, “you made us feel ashamed of ourselves sometimes. . . . That was something . . ."
"And,” said Harry doggedly, determined to say everything that was on his mind now he was here, “he kept looking over at the girls by the lake, hoping they were watching him!"
"Oh, well, he always made a fool of himself whenever Lily was around,” said Sirius, shrugging. “He couldn’t stop himself showing off whenever he got near her."
"How come she married him?” Harry asked miserably. “She hated him!"
"Nah, she didn’t,"
"She started going out with him in seventh year,"
"Once James had deflated his head a bit,"
"And stopped hexing people just for the fun of it,"
"Even Snape?"
"Well,” said Lupin slowly, “Snape was a special case. I mean, he never lost an opportunity to curse James, so you couldn’t really expect James to take that lying down, could you?"
"And my mum was okay with that?"
"She didn’t know too much about it, to tell you the truth,” said Sirius. “I mean, James didn’t take Snape on dates with her and jinx him in front of her, did he?"
"Look,” he said, “your father was the best friend I ever had, and he was a good person. A lot of people are idiots at the age of fifteen. He grew out of it."
"Yeah, okay,” said Harry heavily. “I just never thought I’d feel sorry for Snape."
"Now you mention it,” said Lupin, a faint crease between his eyebrows, “how did Snape react when he found you’d seen all this?"
"He told me he’d never teach me Occlumency again,” said Harry indifferently, “like that’s a big disappoint —"
"He WHAT?"
"Are you serious, Harry?” said Lupin quickly. “He’s stopped giving you lessons?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, surprised at what he considered a great overreaction. “But it’s okay, I don’t care, it’s a bit of a relief to tell you the —"
"I’m coming up there to have a word with Snape!"
"If anyone’s going to tell Snape it will be me!” he said firmly. “But Harry, first of all, you’re to go back to Snape and tell him that on no account is he to stop giving you lessons — when Dumbledore hears —"
"I can’t tell him that, he’d kill me!” said Harry, outraged. “You didn’t see him when we got out of the Pensieve —"
"Harry, there is nothing so important as you learning Occlumency!” said Lupin sternly. “Do you understand me? Nothing!"
"Okay, okay,” said Harry, thoroughly discomposed, not to mention annoyed. “I’ll . . . I’ll try and say something to him. . . . But it won’t be . . ."
"Is that Kreacher coming downstairs?"
"No,” said Sirius, glancing behind him. “It must be somebody your end . . ."
"I’d better go!"
"Quickly, quickly!” he heard a wheezy voice mutter right outside the office door. “Ah, she’s left it open . . ."
"Approval for Whipping . . . Approval for Whipping . . . I can do it at last. . . . They’ve had it coming to them for years . . ."
"So!” said Umbridge triumphantly, whom Harry realized was standing just a few stairs in front of him, once more looking down upon her prey. “So . . . you think it amusing to turn a school corridor into a swamp, do you?"
"Pretty amusing, yeah,"
"I’ve got the form, Headmistress,” he said hoarsely, waving the piece of parchment Harry had just seen him take from her desk. “I’ve got the form and I’ve got the whips waiting. . . . Oh, let me do it now . . ."
"Very good, Argus,” she said. “You two,” she went on, gazing down at Fred and George, “are about to learn what happens to wrongdoers in my school."
"You know what?” said Fred. “I don’t think we are."
"George,” said Fred, “I think we’ve outgrown full-time education."
"Yeah, I’ve been feeling that way myself,"
"Time to test our talents in the real world, d’you reckon?"
"Definitely,"
"Accio Brooms!"
"We won’t be seeing you,"
"Yeah, don’t bother to keep in touch,"
"If anyone fancies buying a Portable Swamp, as demonstrated upstairs, come to number ninety-three, Diagon Alley — Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes,” he said in a loud voice. “Our new premises!"
"Special discounts to Hogwarts students who swear they’re going to use our products to get rid of this old bat,"
"STOP THEM!"
"Give her hell from us, Peeves."
"Honestly, some days I just feel like jumping on my broom and leaving this place,” or else, “One more lesson like that and I might just do a Weasley . . ."
"Umbridge-itis."
"It unscrews the other way."
"Should we say something?” said Hermione in a worried voice, pressing her cheek against the Charms window so that she could see Mr. and Mrs. Montague marching inside. “About what happened to him? In case it helps Madam Pomfrey cure him?"
"’Course not, he’ll recover,"
"Anyway, more trouble for Umbridge, isn’t it?"
"Reparo!” said Hermione quickly, mending Ron’s cup with a wave of her wand. “That’s all very well, but what if Montague’s permanently injured?"
"Who cares?” said Ron irritably, while his teacup stood drunkenly again, trembling violently at the knees. “Montague shouldn’t have tried to take all those points from Gryffindor, should he? If you want to worry about anyone, Hermione, worry about me!"
"You?” she said, catching her teacup as it scampered happily away across the desk on four sturdy little willow-patterned legs and replacing it in front of her. “Why should I be worried about you?"
"When Mum’s next letter finally gets through Umbridge’s screening process,” said Ron bitterly, now holding his cup up while its frail legs tried feebly to support its weight, “I’m going to be in deep trouble. I wouldn’t be surprised if she’s sent a Howler again."
"But —"
"It’ll be my fault Fred and George left, you wait,” said Ron darkly. “She’ll say I should’ve stopped them leaving, I should’ve grabbed the ends of their brooms and hung on or something. . . . Yeah, it’ll be all my fault . . ."
"Well, if she does say that it’ll be very unfair, you couldn’t have done anything! But I’m sure she won’t, I mean, if it’s really true they’ve got premises in Diagon Alley now, they must have been planning this for ages . . ."
"Yeah, but that’s another thing, how did they get premises?” said Ron, hitting his teacup so hard with his wand that its legs collapsed again and it lay twitching before him. “It’s a bit dodgy, isn’t it? They’ll need loads of Galleons to afford the rent on a place in Diagon Alley, she’ll want to know what they’ve been up to, to get their hands on that sort of gold . . ."
"Well, yes, that occurred to me too,” said Hermione, allowing her teacup to jog in neat little circles around Harry’s, whose stubby little legs were still unable to touch the desktop. “I’ve been wondering whether Mundungus has persuaded them to sell stolen goods or something awful . . ."
"He hasn’t,"
"How do you know?"
"Because —” Harry hesitated, but the moment to confess finally seemed to have come. There was no good to be gained in keeping silent if it meant anyone suspected that Fred and George were criminals. “Because they got the gold from me. I gave them my Triwizard winnings last June."
"Oh, Harry, you didn’t!"
"Yes, I did,” said Harry mutinously. “And I don’t regret it either — I didn’t need the gold, and they’ll be great at a joke shop . . ."
"But this is excellent!” said Ron, looking thrilled. “It’s all your fault, Harry — Mum can’t blame me at all! Can I tell her?"
"Yeah, I suppose you’d better,” said Harry dully. “’Specially if she thinks they’re receiving stolen cauldrons or something . . ."
"It’s no good nagging me, it’s done,” he said firmly. “Fred and George have got the gold — spent a good bit of it too, by the sounds of it — and I can’t get it back from them and I don’t want to. So save your breath, Hermione."
"I wasn’t going to say anything about Fred and George!"
"No, I wasn’t!” she said angrily. “As a matter of fact, I was going to ask Harry when he’s going to go back to Snape and ask for Occlumency lessons again!"
"You can’t tell me you’ve stopped having funny dreams,” Hermione said now, “because Ron told me last night you were muttering in your sleep again . . ."
"You were only muttering a bit,” he mumbled apologetically. “Something about ‘just a bit farther.’"
"I dreamed I was watching you lot play Quidditch,” Harry lied brutally. “I was trying to get you to stretch out a bit farther to grab the Quaffle."
"You are trying to block your mind, aren’t you?” said Hermione, looking beadily at Harry. “You are keeping going with your Occlumency?"
"Of course I am,"
"You know,” said Ron, whose ears were still flaming red, “if Montague doesn’t recover before Slytherin play Hufflepuff, we might be in with a chance of winning the Cup."
"Yeah, I s’pose so,"
"I mean, we’ve won one, lost one — if Slytherin lose to Hufflepuff next Saturday —"
"Yeah, that’s right,"
"I mean, I can’t get any worse, can I?” he told Harry and Hermione grimly over breakfast on the morning of the match. “Nothing to lose now, is there?"
"You know,” said Hermione, as she and Harry walked down to the pitch a little later in the midst of a very excitable crowd, “I think Ron might do better without Fred and George around. They never exactly gave him a lot of confidence . . ."
"Oh gosh, I forgot!” said Hermione, watching the eagle flapping its wings as Luna walked serenely past a group of cackling and pointing Slytherins. “Cho will be playing, won’t she?"
"Weasley Is Our King."
". . . Bradley . . . Davies . . . Chang,"
"And they’re off!” said Lee. “And Davies takes the Quaffle immediately, Ravenclaw Captain Davies with the Quaffle, he dodges Johnson, he dodges Bell, he dodges Spinnet as well. . . . He’s going straight for goal! He’s going to shoot — and — and —” Lee swore very loudly. “And he’s scored."
"Harry,” said a hoarse voice in Harry’s ear. “Hermione . . ."
"Listen,” he whispered, “can yeh come with me? Now? While ev’ryone’s watchin’ the match?"
"Er . . . can’t it wait, Hagrid?” asked Harry. “Till the match is over?"
"No,” said Hagrid. “No, Harry, it’s gotta be now . . . while ev’ryone’s lookin’ the other way. . . . Please?"
"’Course,” said Harry at once, “’course we’ll come . . ."
"I ’ppreciate this, you two, I really do,” said Hagrid as they reached the stairs. He kept looking around nervously as they descended toward the lawn below. “I jus’ hope she doesn’ notice us goin’ . . ."
"You mean Umbridge?” said Harry. “She won’t, she’s got her whole Inquisitorial Squad sitting with her, didn’t you see? She must be expecting trouble at the match."
"Yeah, well, a bit o’ trouble wouldn’ hurt,” said Hagrid, pausing to peer around the edge of the stands to make sure the stretch of lawn between there and his cabin was deserted. “Give us more time . . ."
"What is it, Hagrid?"
"Yeh — yeh’ll see in a mo’,” said Hagrid, looking over his shoulder as a great roar rose from the stands behind them. “Hey — did someone jus’ score?"
"It’ll be Ravenclaw,"
"Good . . . good . . .” said Hagrid distractedly. “Tha’s good . . ."
"We’re goin’ in here,"
"Into the forest?"
"Yeah,” said Hagrid. “C’mon now, quick, before we’re spotted!"
"Hagrid, why are you armed?"
"Jus’ a precaution,"
"You didn’t bring your crossbow the day you showed us the thestrals,"
"Nah, well, we weren’ goin’ in so far then,” said Hagrid. “An’ anyway, tha’ was before Firenze left the forest, wasn’ it?"
"Why does Firenze leaving make a difference?"
"’Cause the other centaurs are good an’ riled at me, tha’s why,” said Hagrid quietly, glancing around. “They used ter be — well, yeh couldn’ call ’em friendly — but we got on all righ’. Kept ’emselves to ’emselves, bu’ always turned up if I wanted a word. Not anymore . . ."
"Firenze said that they’re angry because he went to work for Dumbledore?"
"Yeah,” said Hagrid heavily. “Well, angry doesn’ cover it. Ruddy livid. If I hadn’ stepped in, I reckon they’d’ve kicked Firenze ter death —"
"They attacked him?"
"Yep,” said Hagrid gruffly, forcing his way through several low-hanging branches. “He had half the herd onto him —"
"And you stopped it?” said Harry, amazed and impressed. “By yourself?"
"’Course I did, couldn’t stand by an’ watch ’em kill him, could I?” said Hagrid. “Lucky I was passin’, really . . . an’ I’d’ve thought Firenze mighta remembered tha’ before he started sendin’ me stupid warnin’s!"
"Anyway,” he said, breathing a little more heavily than usual, “since then the other centaurs’ve bin livid with me an’ the trouble is, they’ve got a lot of influence in the forest. . . . Cleverest creatures in here . . ."
"Is that why we’re here, Hagrid?” asked Hermione. “The centaurs?"
"Ah no,” said Hagrid, shaking his head dismissively, “no, it’s not them. . . . Well, o’ course, they could complicate the problem, yeah. . . . But yeh’ll see what I mean in a bit . . ."
"Hagrid?” said Harry, fighting his way through thickly knotted brambles over which Hagrid had stepped easily and remembering very vividly what had happened to him on the other occasions he had stepped off the forest path. “Where are we going?"
"Bit further,” said Hagrid over his shoulder. “C’mon, Harry. . . . We need ter keep together now . . ."
"Hagrid, would it be all right if we lit our wands?"
"Er . . . all righ’,” Hagrid whispered back. “In fact . . ."
"Maybe we bes’ jus’ stop fer a momen’, so I can . . . fill yeh in,” said Hagrid. “Before we ge’ there, like."
"Good!” said Hermione, as Harry set her back on her feet. They both murmured “Lumos!"
"Righ’,” said Hagrid. “Well . . . see . . . the thing is . . ."
"Well, there’s a good chance I’m goin’ ter be gettin’ the sack any day now,"
"But you’ve lasted this long —” Hermione said tentatively. “What makes you think —"
"Umbridge reckons it was me that put tha’ niffler in her office."
"And was it?"
"No, it ruddy well wasn’!” said Hagrid indignantly. “On’y anythin’ ter do with magical creatures an’ she thinks it’s got somethin’ ter do with me. Yeh know she’s bin lookin’ fer a chance ter get rid of me ever since I got back. I don’ wan’ ter go, o’ course, but if it wasn’ fer . . . well . . . the special circumstances I’m abou’ ter explain to yeh, I’d leave righ’ now, before she’s go’ the chance ter do it in front o’ the whole school, like she did with Trelawney."
"It’s not the end o’ the world, I’ll be able ter help Dumbledore once I’m outta here, I can be useful ter the Order. An’ you lot’ll have Grubbly-Plank, yeh’ll — yeh’ll get through yer exams fine . . ."
"Don’ worry abou’ me,” he said hastily, as Hermione made to pat his arm. He pulled his enormous spotted handkerchief from the pocket of his waistcoat and mopped his eyes with it. “Look, I wouldn’ be tellin’ yer this at all if I didn’ have ter. See, if I go . . . well, I can’ leave withou’ . . . withou’ tellin’ someone . . . because I’ll — I’ll need you two ter help me. An’ Ron, if he’s willin’."
"Of course we’ll help you,” said Harry at once. “What do you want us to do?"
"I knew yeh’d say yes,” said Hagrid into his handkerchief, “but I won’ . . . never . . . forget . . . Well . . . c’mon . . . jus’ a little bit further through here . . . Watch yerselves, now, there’s nettles . . ."
"Really easy,” he said softly. “Very quiet, now . . ."
"Sleepin’,"
"Hagrid,” she said in a whisper barely audible over the sound of the sleeping creature, “who is he?"
"What is it?"
"Hagrid, you told us,” said Hermione, her wand now shaking in her hand, “you told us none of them wanted to come!"
"Well — no — he didn’ want ter come,” said Hagrid, sounding desperate. “But I had ter bring him, Hermione, I had ter!"
"But why?” asked Hermione, who sounded as though she wanted to cry. “Why — what — oh, Hagrid!"
"I knew if I jus’ got him back,” said Hagrid, sounding close to tears himself, “an’ — an’ taught him a few manners — I’d be able ter take him outside an’ show ev’ryone he’s harmless!"
"Harmless!” said Hermione shrilly, and Hagrid made frantic hushing noises with his hands as the enormous creature before them grunted loudly and shifted in its sleep. “He’s been hurting you all this time, hasn’t he? That’s why you’ve had all these injuries!"
"He don’ know his own strength!” said Hagrid earnestly. “An’ he’s gettin’ better, he’s not fightin’ so much anymore —"
"So this is why it took you two months to get home!” said Hermione distractedly. “Oh Hagrid, why did you bring him back if he didn’t want to come, wouldn’t he have been happier with his own people?"
"They were all bullyin’ him, Hermione, ’cause he’s so small!"
"Small?” said Hermione. “Small?"
"Hermione, I couldn’ leave him,” said Hagrid, tears now trickling down his bruised face into his beard. “See — he’s my brother!"
"Hagrid, when you say ‘brother,’” said Harry slowly, “do you mean — ?"
"Well — half-brother,” amended Hagrid. “Turns out me mother took up with another giant when she left me dad, an’ she went an’ had Grawp here —"
"Grawp?"
"Yeah . . . well, tha’s what it sounds like when he says his name,” said Hagrid anxiously. “He don’ speak a lot of English. . . . I’ve bin tryin’ ter teach him. . . . Anyway, she don’ seem ter have liked him much more’n she liked me. . . . See, with giantesses, what counts is producin’ good big kids, and he’s always been a bit on the runty side fer a giant — on’y sixteen foot —"
"Oh yes, tiny!” said Hermione, with a kind of hysterical sarcasm. “Absolutely minuscule!"
"He was bein’ kicked around by all o’ them — I jus’ couldn’ leave him —"
"Did Madame Maxime want to bring him back?"
"She — well, she could see it was right importan’ ter me,” said Hagrid, twisting his enormous hands. “Bu’ — bu’ she got a bit tired of him after a while, I must admit . . . so we split up on the journey home. . . . She promised not ter tell anyone though . . ."
"How on earth did you get him back without anyone noticing?"
"Well, tha’s why it took so long, see,” said Hagrid. “Could on’y travel by nigh’ an’ through wild country an’ stuff. ’Course, he covers the ground pretty well when he wants ter, but he kep’ wantin’ ter go back . . ."
"Oh Hagrid, why on earth didn’t you let him!” said Hermione, flopping down onto a ripped-up tree and burying her face in her hands. “What do you think you’re going to do with a violent giant who doesn’t even want to be here!"
"Well, now — ‘violent’ — tha’s a bit harsh,” said Hagrid, still twisting his hands agitatedly. “I’ll admit he mighta taken a couple o’ swings at me when he’s bin in a bad mood, but he’s gettin’ better, loads better, settlin’ down well . . ."
"What are those ropes for, then?"
"You have to keep him tied up?"
"Well . . . yeah . . .” said Hagrid, looking anxious. “See — it’s like I say — he doesn’ really know his strength —"
"So what is it you want Harry and Ron and me to do?"
"Look after him,” said Hagrid croakily. “After I’m gone."
"What — what does that involve, exactly?"
"Not food or anythin’!” said Hagrid eagerly. “He can get his own food, no problem. Birds an’ deer an’ stuff . . . No, it’s company he needs. If I jus’ knew someone was carryin’ on tryin’ ter help him a bit . . . teachin’ him, yeh know . . ."
"You want us to teach him,"
"Yeah — even if yeh jus’ talk ter him a bit,” said Hagrid hopefully. “’Cause I reckon, if he can talk ter people, he’ll understand more that we all like him really, an’ want him to stay . . ."
"Kind of makes you wish we had Norbert back, doesn’t it?"
"Yeh’ll do it, then?"
"We’ll . . .” said Harry, already bound by his promise. “We’ll try, Hagrid . . ."
"I knew I could count on yeh, Harry,” Hagrid said, beaming in a very watery way and dabbing at his face with his handkerchief again. “An’ I don’ wan’ yeh ter put yerself out too much, like. . . . I know yeh’ve got exams. . . . If yeh could jus’ nip down here in yer Invisibility Cloak maybe once a week an’ have a little chat with him . . . I’ll wake him up, then — introduce you —"
"Wha — no!” said Hermione, jumping up, “Hagrid, no, don’t wake him, really, we don’t need —"
"All righ’, Grawpy?” said Hagrid in a would-be cheery voice, backing away with the long bough raised, ready to poke Grawp again. “Had a nice sleep, eh?"
"Oh my . . ."
"Anyway, Grawpy,” shouted Hagrid, looking up apprehensively in case of further falling eggs, “I’ve brought some friends ter meet yeh. Remember, I told yeh I might? Remember, when I said I might have ter go on a little trip an’ leave them ter look after yeh fer a bit? Remember that, Grawpy?"
"Now, Grawpy, don’ do that!” shouted Hagrid. “Tha’s how you ended up pullin’ up the others —"
"I got company fer yeh!” Hagrid shouted. “Company, see! Look down, yeh big buffoon, I brought yeh some friends!"
"Oh Hagrid, don’t,"
"This,” said Hagrid, hastening over to where Harry and Hermione stood, “is Harry, Grawp! Harry Potter! He migh’ be comin’ ter visit yeh if I have ter go away, understand?"
"An’ this is Hermione, see? Her —” Hagrid hesitated. Turning to Hermione he said, “Would yeh mind if he called yeh Hermy, Hermione? On’y it’s a difficult name fer him ter remember . . ."
"No, not at all,"
"This is Hermy, Grawp! An’ she’s gonna be comin’ an’ all! Is’n tha’ nice? Eh? Two friends fer yeh ter — GRAWPY, NO!"
"BAD BOY, GRAWPY!” Harry heard Hagrid yelling, as Hermione clung to Harry behind the tree, shaking and whimpering. “VERY BAD BOY! YEH DON’ GRAB — OUCH!"
"Righ’,” said Hagrid thickly, getting up with one hand pinching his bleeding nose and the other grasping his crossbow. “Well . . . there yeh are. . . . Yeh’ve met him an’ — an’ now he’ll know yeh when yeh come back. Yeah . . . well . . ."
"Well, I reckon tha’s enough fer one day,” said Hagrid. “We’ll — er — we’ll go back now, shall we?"
"Hold it,"
"Oh blimey,"
"I thought that we told you, Hagrid,” said a deep male voice, “that you are no longer welcome here?"
"How are yeh, Magorian?"
"So,” he said, with a nasty inflection in his voice, before turning immediately to Magorian. “We agreed, I think, what we would do if this human showed his face in the forest again?"
"‘This human’ now, am I?” said Hagrid testily. “Jus’ fer stoppin’ all of yeh committin’ murder?"
"You ought not to have meddled, Hagrid,” said Magorian. “Our ways are not yours, nor are our laws. Firenze has betrayed and dishonored us."
"I dunno how yeh work that out,” said Hagrid impatiently. “He’s done nothin’ except help Albus Dumbledore —"
"Firenze has entered into servitude to humans,"
"Servitude!” said Hagrid scathingly. “He’s doin’ Dumbledore a favor is all —"
"He is peddling our knowledge and secrets among humans,” said Magorian quietly. “There can be no return from such disgrace."
"If yeh say so,” said Hagrid, shrugging, “but personally I think yeh’re makin’ a big mistake —"
"As are you, human,” said Bane, “coming back into our forest when we warned you —"
"Now, you listen ter me,” said Hagrid angrily. “I’ll have less of the ‘our’ forest, if it’s all the same ter you. It’s not up ter you who comes an’ goes in here —"
"No more is it up to you, Hagrid,” said Magorian smoothly. “I shall let you pass today because you are accompanied by your young —"
"They’re not his!” interrupted Bane contemptuously. “Students, Magorian, from up at the school! They have probably already profited from the traitor Firenze’s teachings . . ."
"Nevertheless,” said Magorian calmly, “the slaughter of foals is a terrible crime. . . . We do not touch the innocent. Today, Hagrid, you pass. Henceforth, stay away from this place. You forfeited the friendship of the centaurs when you helped the traitor Firenze escape us."
"I won’ be kept outta the fores’ by a bunch of mules like you!"
"Hagrid,” said Hermione in a high-pitched and terrified voice, as both Bane and the gray centaur pawed at the ground, “let’s go, please let’s go!"
"We know what you are keeping in the forest, Hagrid!” Magorian called after them, as the centaurs slipped out of sight. “And our tolerance is waning!"
"You’ll tolerate him as long as he’s here, it’s as much his forest as yours!"
"Calm down, you two,” he said, turning to walk on while they panted along behind him. “Ruddy old nags though, eh?"
"Hagrid,” said Hermione breathlessly, skirting the patch of nettles they had passed on their way there, “if the centaurs don’t want humans in the forest, it doesn’t really look as though Harry and I will be able —"
"Ah, you heard what they said,” said Hagrid dismissively. “They wouldn’t hurt foals — I mean, kids. Anyway, we can’ let ourselves be pushed around by that lot . . ."
"Nice try,"
"Was that another goal?” asked Hagrid, pausing in the shelter of the trees as the Quidditch stadium came into view. “Or d’you reckon the match is over?"
"I don’t know,"
"I reckon it’s over, yeh know!” said Hagrid, still squinting toward the stadium. “Look — there’s people comin’ out already — if you two hurry yeh’ll be able ter blend in with the crowd an’ no one’ll know you weren’t there!"
"Good idea,” said Harry. “Well . . . see you later, then, Hagrid . . ."
"I don’t believe him,” said Hermione in a very unsteady voice, the moment they were out of earshot of Hagrid. “I don’t believe him. I really don’t believe him . . ."
"Calm down,"
"Calm down!” she said feverishly. “A giant! A giant in the forest! And we’re supposed to give him English lessons! Always assuming, of course, we can get past the herd of murderous centaurs on the way in and out! I — don’t — believe — him!"
"We haven’t got to do anything yet!” Harry tried to reassure her in a quiet voice, as they joined a stream of jabbering Hufflepuffs heading back toward the castle. “He’s not asking us to do anything unless he gets chucked out and that might not even happen —"
"Oh come off it, Harry!” said Hermione angrily, stopping dead in her tracks so that the people behind her had to swerve to avoid her. “Of course he’s going to be chucked out and to be perfectly honest, after what we’ve just seen, who can blame Umbridge?"
"You didn’t mean that,"
"No . . . well . . . all right . . . I didn’t,” she said, wiping her eyes angrily. “But why does he have to make life so difficult for himself — for us?"
"I dunno —"
"And I wish they’d stop singing that stupid song,” said Hermione miserably, “haven’t they gloated enough?"
"Oh, let’s get in before we have to meet the Slytherins,"
"Hermione . . ."
"No!"
"YES!"
"HARRY! HERMIONE!” yelled Ron, waving the silver Quidditch Cup in the air and looking quite beside himself. “WE DID IT! WE WON!"
"Weasley Is Our King"
"We’ll save our news till tomorrow, shall we?"
"Yes, all right,” said Hermione wearily. “I’m not in any hurry . . ."
"Weasley Is Our King,"
"Well, I mean, I’d already let in that one of Davies’s, so I wasn’t feeling that confident, but I dunno, when Bradley came toward me, just out of nowhere, I thought — you can do this! And I had about a second to decide which way to fly, you know, because he looked like he was aiming for the right goal hoop — my right, obviously, his left — but I had a funny feeling that he was feinting, and so I took the chance and flew left — his right, I mean — and — well — you saw what happened,” he concluded modestly, sweeping his hair back quite unnecessarily so that it looked interestingly windswept and glancing around to see whether the people nearest to them — a bunch of gossiping third-year Hufflepuffs — had heard him. “And then, when Chambers came at me about five minutes later — what?” Ron said, stopping mid-sentence at the look on Harry’s face. “Why are you grinning?"
"I’m not,” said Harry quickly, looking down at his Transfiguration notes and attempting to straighten his face. The truth was that Ron had just reminded Harry forcibly of another Gryffindor Quidditch player who had once sat rumpling his hair under this very tree. “I’m just glad we won, that’s all."
"Yeah,” said Ron slowly, savoring the words, “we won. Did you see the look on Chang’s face when Ginny got the Snitch right out from under her nose?"
"I suppose she cried, did she?"
"Well, yeah — more out of temper than anything, though . . .” Ron frowned slightly. “But you saw her chuck her broom away when she got back to the ground, didn’t you?"
"Er —"
"Well, actually . . . no, Ron,” said Hermione with a heavy sigh, putting down her book and looking at him apologetically. “As a matter of fact, the only bit of the match Harry and I saw was Davies’s first goal."
"You didn’t watch?” he said faintly, looking from one to the other. “You didn’t see me make any of those saves?"
"Well — no,” said Hermione, stretching out a placatory hand toward him. “But Ron, we didn’t want to leave — we had to!"
"Yeah?” said Ron, whose face was growing rather red. “How come?"
"It was Hagrid,” said Harry. “He decided to tell us why he’s been covered in injuries ever since he got back from the giants. He wanted us to go into the forest with him, we had no choice, you know how he gets. . . . Anyway . . ."
"He brought one back and hid it in the forest?"
"Yep,"
"No,” said Ron, as though by saying this he could make it untrue. “No, he can’t have . . ."
"Well, he has,” said Hermione firmly. “Grawp’s about sixteen feet tall, enjoys ripping up twenty-foot pine trees, and knows me,” she snorted, “as Hermy."
"And Hagrid wants us to . . . ?"
"Teach him English, yeah,"
"He’s lost his mind,"
"Yes,” said Hermione irritably, turning a page of Intermediate Transfiguration and glaring at a series of diagrams showing an owl turning into a pair of opera glasses. “Yes, I’m starting to think he has. But unfortunately, he made Harry and me promise."
"Well, you’re just going to have to break your promise, that’s all,” said Ron firmly. “I mean, come on . . . We’ve got exams and we’re about that far,” he held up his hand to show thumb and forefinger a millimeter apart, “from being chucked out as it is. And anyway . . . remember Norbert? Remember Aragog? Have we ever come off better for mixing with any of Hagrid’s monster mates?"
"I know, it’s just that — we promised,"
"Well,” he sighed, “Hagrid hasn’t been sacked yet, has he? He’s hung on this long, maybe he’ll hang on till the end of term and we won’t have to go near Grawp at all."
"How many hours d’you think you’re doing a day?"
"I dunno,” said Ron. “A few . . ."
"More or less than eight?"
"Less, I s’pose,"
"I’m doing eight,” said Ernie, puffing out his chest. “Eight or nine. I’m getting an hour in before breakfast every day. Eight’s my average. I can do ten on a good weekend day. I did nine and a half on Monday. Not so good on Tuesday — only seven and a quarter. Then on Wednesday —"
"Of course, it’s not what you know,” he was heard to tell Crabbe and Goyle loudly outside Potions a few days before the exams were to start, “it’s who you know. Now, Father’s been friendly with the head of the Wizarding Examinations Authority for years — old Griselda Marchbanks — we’ve had her round for dinner and everything . . ."
"Do you think that’s true?"
"Nothing we can do about it if it is,"
"I don’t think it’s true,” said Neville quietly from behind them. “Because Griselda Marchbanks is a friend of my gran’s, and she’s never mentioned the Malfoys."
"What’s she like, Neville?” asked Hermione at once. “Is she strict?"
"Bit like Gran, really,"
"Knowing her won’t hurt your chances though, will it?"
"Oh, I don’t think it will make any difference,” said Neville, still more miserably. “Gran’s always telling Professor Marchbanks I’m not as good as my dad. . . . Well . . . you saw what she’s like at St. Mungo’s . . ."
"Outstanding"
"Hermione, we wanted to buy that!"
"Don’t be stupid,” she snarled. “You might as well take Harold Dingle’s powdered dragon claw and have done with it."
"Dingle’s got powdered dragon claw?"
"Not anymore,” said Hermione. “I confiscated that too. None of these things actually works you know —"
"Dragon claw does work!” said Ron. “It’s supposed to be incredible, really gives your brain a boost, you come over all cunning for a few hours — Hermione, let me have a pinch, go on, it can’t hurt —"
"This stuff can,” said Hermione grimly. “I’ve had a look at it, and it’s actually dried doxy droppings."
"As you can see,"
"Now, I must warn you that the most stringent Anti-Cheating Charms have been applied to your examination papers. Auto-Answer Quills are banned from the examination hall, as are Remembralls, Detachable Cribbing Cuffs, and Self-Correcting Ink. Every year, I am afraid to say, seems to harbor at least one student who thinks that he or she can get around the Wizarding Examinations Authority’s rules. I can only hope that it is nobody in Gryffindor. Our new — headmistress” — Professor McGonagall pronounced the word with the same look on her face that Aunt Petunia had whenever she was contemplating a particularly stubborn bit of dirt — “has asked the Heads of House to tell their students that cheating will be punished most severely — because, of course, your examination results will reflect upon the headmistress’s new regime at the school . . ."
"However, that is no reason not to do your very best. You have your own futures to think about."
"Please, Professor,” said Hermione, her hand in the air, “when will we find out our results?"
"An owl will be sent to you some time in July,"
"Excellent,” said Dean Thomas in an audible whisper, “so we don’t have to worry about it till the holidays . . ."
"Why don’t you just do it yourself?"
"Oh, my goodness,” she said faintly, staring into the entrance hall. “Is that them? Is that the examiners?"
"Shall we go and have a closer look?"
"Journey was fine, journey was fine, we’ve made it plenty of times before!” she said impatiently. “Now, I haven’t heard from Dumbledore lately!” she added, peering around the hall as though hopeful he might suddenly emerge from a broom cupboard. “No idea where he is, I suppose?"
"None at all,” said Umbridge, shooting a malevolent look at Harry, Ron, and Hermione, who were now dawdling around the foot of the stairs as Ron pretended to do up his shoelace. “But I daresay the Ministry of Magic will track him down soon enough . . ."
"I doubt it,” shouted tiny Professor Marchbanks, “not if Dumbledore doesn’t want to be found! I should know. . . . Examined him personally in Transfiguration and Charms when he did N.E.W.T.s . . . Did things with a wand I’d never seen before . . ."
"Yes . . . well . . .” said Professor Umbridge as Harry, Ron, and Hermione dragged their feet up the marble staircase as slowly as they dared, “let me show you to the staffroom . . . I daresay you’d like a cup of tea after your journey . . ."
"You may begin,"
"Well, it wasn’t too bad, was it?” asked Hermione anxiously in the entrance hall two hours later, still clutching the exam paper. “I’m not sure I did myself justice on Cheering Charms, I just ran out of time — did you put in the countercharm for hiccups? I wasn’t sure whether I ought to, it felt like too much — and on question twenty-three —"
"Hermione,” said Ron sternly, “we’ve been through this before. . . . We’re not going through every exam afterward, it’s bad enough doing them once."
"She’ll be fine — remember she got a hundred and twelve percent on one of our Charms tests?"
"Parkinson, Pansy — Patil, Padma — Patil, Parvati — Potter, Harry."
"Good luck,"
"Professor Tofty is free, Potter,"
"Potter, is it?” said Professor Tofty, consulting his notes and peering over his pince-nez at Harry as he approached. “The famous Potter?"
"That’s it,” he said in his quavery old voice, “no need to be nervous. . . . Now, if I could ask you to take this eggcup and make it do some cartwheels for me . . ."
"Oh bravo!” cried Professor Tofty, who was examining Harry again, when Harry demonstrated a perfect boggart banishing spell. “Very good indeed! Well, I think that’s all, Potter . . . unless . . ."
"I heard, from my dear friend Tiberius Ogden, that you can produce a Patronus? For a bonus point . . . ?"
"Expecto Patronum!"
"Excellent!” he said. “Very well, Potter, you may go!"
"Outstanding"
"How were the runes?"
"I mistranslated ‘ehwaz,’” said Hermione furiously. “It means ‘partnership,’ not ‘defense,’ I mixed it up with ‘eihwaz.’"
"Ah well,” said Ron lazily, “that’s only one mistake, isn’t it, you’ll still get —"
"Oh shut up,” said Hermione angrily, “it could be the one mistake that makes the difference between a pass and a fail. And what’s more, someone’s put another niffler in Umbridge’s office, I don’t know how they got it through that new door, but I just walked past there and Umbridge is shrieking her head off — by the sound of it, it tried to take a chunk out of her leg —"
"Good,"
"It is not good!” said Hermione hotly. “She thinks it’s Hagrid doing it, remember? And we do not want Hagrid chucked out!"
"He’s teaching at the moment, she can’t blame him,"
"Oh, you’re so naive sometimes, Harry, you really think Umbridge will wait for proof?"
"Such a lovely, sweet-tempered girl,"
"Step away from your cauldrons, please, the examination is over,"
"Only four exams left,"
"Only!” said Hermione snappishly. “I’ve got Arithmancy and it’s probably the toughest subject there is!"
"Well, we were always going to fail that one,"
"We shouldn’t have taken the stupid subject in the first place,"
"Still, at least we can give it up now."
"Yeah,” said Harry. “No more pretending we care what happens when Jupiter and Uranus get too friendly . . ."
"And from now on, I don’t care if my tea leaves spell die, Ron, die — I’m just chucking them in the bin where they belong."
"Well, I think I’ve done all right in Arithmancy,” she said, and Harry and Ron both sighed with relief. “Just time for a quick look over our star charts before dinner, then . . ."
"Try and concentrate, now, boys and girls,"
"Ahem — twenty minutes to go,"
"Ouch!"
"No!"
"My dear!” said Professor Tofty in a scandalized voice. “This is an examination!"
"Be reasonable, Hagrid!” and Hagrid roared, “Reasonable be damned, yeh won’ take me like this, Dawlish!"
"Look!"
"Now, really!” said Professor Tofty anxiously. “Only sixteen minutes left, you know!"
"How dare you!” the figure shouted as she ran. “How dare you!"
"It’s McGonagall!"
"Leave him alone! Alone, I say!” said Professor McGonagall’s voice through the darkness. “On what grounds are you attacking him? He has done nothing, nothing to warrant such —"
"Galloping gargoyles!” shouted Professor Tofty, who seemed to have forgotten the exam completely. “Not so much as a warning! Outrageous behavior!"
"COWARDS!” bellowed Hagrid, his voice carrying clearly to the top of the tower, and several lights flickered back on inside the castle. “RUDDY COWARDS! HAVE SOME O’ THAT — AN’ THAT —"
"Oh my —"
"Get him, get him!"
"Um . . . five minutes to go, everybody . . ."
"That evil woman!” gasped Hermione, who seemed to be having difficulty talking due to rage. “Trying to sneak up on Hagrid in the dead of night!"
"She clearly wanted to avoid another scene like Trelawney’s,"
"Hagrid did well, didn’t he?” said Ron, who looked more alarmed than impressed. “How come all the spells bounced off him?"
"It’ll be his giant blood,” said Hermione shakily. “It’s very hard to Stun a giant, they’re like trolls, really tough. . . . But poor Professor McGonagall. . . . Four Stunners straight in the chest, and she’s not exactly young, is she?"
"Dreadful, dreadful,” said Ernie, shaking his head pompously. “Well, I’m off to bed . . . ’Night, all . . ."
"At least they didn’t get to take Hagrid off to Azkaban,” said Ron. “I ’spect he’s gone to join Dumbledore, hasn’t he?"
"I suppose so,” said Hermione, who looked tearful. “Oh, this is awful, I really thought Dumbledore would be back before long, but now we’ve lost Hagrid too . . ."
"But why sack Hagrid now?” asked Angelina Johnson, shaking her head. “It’s not like Trelawney, he’s been teaching much better than usual this year!"
"Umbridge hates part-humans,” said Hermione bitterly, flopping down into an armchair. “She was always going to try and get Hagrid out."
"And she thought Hagrid was putting nifflers in her office,"
"Oh blimey,” said Lee Jordan, covering his mouth. “It’s me’s been putting the nifflers in her office, Fred and George left me a couple, I’ve been levitating them in through her window . . ."
"She’d have sacked him anyway,” said Dean. “He was too close to Dumbledore."
"That’s true,"
"I just hope Professor McGonagall’s all right,"
"They carried her back up to the castle, we watched through the dormitory window,” said Colin Creevey. “She didn’t look very well . . ."
"Madam Pomfrey will sort her out,” said Alicia Spinnet firmly. “She’s never failed yet."
"Turn over your papers,” said Professor Marchbanks from the front of the Hall, flicking over the giant hourglass. “You may begin . . ."
"Take it for me. . . . Lift it down, now. . . . I cannot touch it . . . but you can . . ."
"Crucio!"
"Lord Voldemort is waiting . . ."
"You’ll have to kill me,"
"Undoubtedly I shall in the end,” said the cold voice. “But you will fetch it for me first, Black. . . . You think you have felt pain thus far? Think again. . . . We have hours ahead of us and nobody to hear you scream . . ."
"I’m — I’m fine, sir,” Harry stammered, wiping the sweat from his face. “Really . . . I just fell asleep. . . . Had a nightmare . . ."
"Pressure of examinations!” said the old wizard sympathetically, patting Harry shakily on the shoulder. “It happens, young man, it happens! Now, a cooling drink of water, and perhaps you will be ready to return to the Great Hall? The examination is nearly over, but you may be able to round off your last answer nicely?"
"Yes,” said Harry wildly. “I mean . . . no . . . I’ve done — done as much as I can, I think . . ."
"Very well, very well,” said the old wizard gently. “I shall go and collect your examination paper, and I suggest that you go and have a nice lie down . . ."
"I’ll do that,” said Harry, nodding vigorously. “Thanks very much."
"Potter, what do you think you’re doing?"
"I need to see Professor McGonagall,” gasped Harry, the breath tearing his lungs. “Now . . . It’s urgent . . ."
"She’s not here, Potter,” said Madam Pomfrey sadly. “She was transferred to St. Mungo’s this morning. Four Stunning Spells straight to the chest at her age? It’s a wonder they didn’t kill her."
"She’s . . . gone?"
"I don’t wonder you’re shocked, Potter,” said Madam Pomfrey with a kind of fierce approval in her face. “As if one of them could have Stunned Minerva McGonagall face on by daylight! Cowardice, that’s what it was. . . . Despicable cowardice . . . If I wasn’t worried what would happen to you students without me, I’d resign in protest . . ."
"Yes,"
"Harry!” said Hermione at once, looking very frightened. “What happened? Are you all right? Are you ill?"
"Where have you been?"
"Come with me,” Harry said quickly. “Come on, I’ve got to tell you something . . ."
"Voldemort’s got Sirius."
"What?"
"How d’you — ?"
"Saw it. Just now. When I fell asleep in the exam."
"But — but where? How?"
"I dunno how,” said Harry. “But I know exactly where. There’s a room in the Department of Mysteries full of shelves covered in these little glass balls, and they’re at the end of row ninety-seven . . . He’s trying to use Sirius to get whatever it is he wants from in there. . . . He’s torturing him. . . . Says he’ll end by killing him . . ."
"How’re we going to get there?"
"G-get there?"
"Get to the Department of Mysteries, so we can rescue Sirius!"
"But — Harry . . ."
"What? What?"
"Harry,” said Hermione in a rather frightened voice, “er . . . how . . . how did Voldemort get into the Ministry of Magic without anybody realizing he was there?"
"How do I know?” bellowed Harry. “The question is how we’re going to get in there!"
"But . . . Harry, think about this,” said Hermione, taking a step toward him, “it’s five o’clock in the afternoon. . . . The Ministry of Magic must be full of workers. . . . How would Voldemort and Sirius have got in without being seen? Harry . . . they’re probably the two most wanted wizards in the world. . . . You think they could get into a building full of Aurors undetected?"
"I dunno, Voldemort used an Invisibility Cloak or something!” Harry shouted. “Anyway, the Department of Mysteries has always been completely empty whenever I’ve been —"
"You’ve never been there, Harry,” said Hermione quietly. “You’ve dreamed about the place, that’s all."
"They’re not normal dreams!” Harry shouted in her face, standing up and taking a step closer to her in turn. He wanted to shake her. “How d’you explain Ron’s dad then, what was all that about, how come I knew what had happened to him?"
"He’s got a point,"
"But this is just — just so unlikely!” said Hermione desperately. “Harry, how on earth could Voldemort have got hold of Sirius when he’s been in Grimmauld Place all the time?"
"Sirius might’ve cracked and just wanted some fresh air,” said Ron, sounding worried. “He’s been desperate to get out of that house for ages —"
"But why,” Hermione persisted, “why on earth would Voldemort want to use Sirius to get the weapon, or whatever the thing is?"
"I dunno, there could be loads of reasons!” Harry yelled at her. “Maybe Sirius is just someone Voldemort doesn’t care about seeing hurt —"
"You know what, I’ve just thought of something,” said Ron in a hushed voice. “Sirius’s brother was a Death Eater, wasn’t he? Maybe he told Sirius the secret of how to get the weapon!"
"Yeah — and that’s why Dumbledore’s been so keen to keep Sirius locked up all the time!"
"Look, I’m sorry,” cried Hermione, “but neither of you are making sense, and we’ve got no proof for any of this, no proof Voldemort and Sirius are even there —"
"Hermione, Harry’s seen them!"
"Okay,” she said, looking frightened yet determined, “I’ve just got to say this . . ."
"What?"
"You . . . This isn’t a criticism, Harry! But you do . . . sort of . . . I mean — don’t you think you’ve got a bit of a — a — saving-people-thing?"
"And what’s that supposed to mean, a ‘saving-people-thing’?"
"Well . . . you . . .” She looked more apprehensive than ever. “I mean . . . last year, for instance . . . in the lake . . . during the Tournament . . . you shouldn’t have . . . I mean, you didn’t need to save that little Delacour girl. . . . You got a bit . . . carried away . . ."
". . . I mean, it was really great of you and everything,” said Hermione quickly, looking positively petrified at the look on Harry’s face. “Everyone thought it was a wonderful thing to do —"
"That’s funny,” said Harry in a trembling voice, “because I definitely remember Ron saying I’d wasted time acting the hero. . . . Is that what you think this is? You reckon I want to act the hero again?"
"No, no, no!” said Hermione, looking aghast. “That’s not what I mean at all!"
"Well, spit out what you’ve got to say, because we’re wasting time here!"
"I’m trying to say — Voldemort knows you, Harry! He took Ginny down into the Chamber of Secrets to lure you there, it’s the kind of thing he does, he knows you’re the — the sort of person who’d go to Sirius’s aid! What if he’s just trying to get you into the Department of Myst — ?"
"Hermione, it doesn’t matter if he’s done it to get me there or not — they’ve taken McGonagall to St. Mungo’s, there isn’t anyone left from the Order at Hogwarts who we can tell, and if we don’t go, Sirius is dead!"
"But Harry — what if your dream was — was just that, a dream?"
"You don’t get it!” Harry shouted at her. “I’m not having nightmares, I’m not just dreaming! What d’you think all the Occlumency was for, why d’you think Dumbledore wanted me prevented from seeing these things? Because they’re REAL, Hermione — Sirius is trapped — I’ve seen him — Voldemort’s got him, and no one else knows, and that means we’re the only ones who can save him, and if you don’t want to do it, fine, but I’m going, understand? And if I remember rightly, you didn’t have a problem with my saving-people-thing when it was you I was saving from the dementors, or” — he rounded on Ron — “when it was your sister I was saving from the basilisk —"
"I never said I had a problem!"
"But Harry, you’ve just said it,” said Hermione fiercely. “Dumbledore wanted you to learn to shut these things out of your mind, if you’d done Occlumency properly you’d never have seen this —"
"IF YOU THINK I’M JUST GOING TO ACT LIKE I HAVEN’T SEEN —"
"Sirius told you there was nothing more important than you learning to close your mind!"
"WELL, I EXPECT HE’D SAY SOMETHING DIFFERENT IF HE KNEW WHAT I’D JUST —"
"Hi,” said Ginny uncertainly. “We recognized Harry’s voice — what are you yelling about?"
"Never you mind,"
"There’s no need to take that tone with me,” she said coolly. “I was only wondering whether I could help."
"Well, you can’t,"
"You’re being rather rude, you know,"
"Wait,” said Hermione suddenly. “Wait . . . Harry, they can help."
"Listen,” she said urgently, “Harry, we need to establish whether Sirius really has left headquarters —"
"I’ve told you, I saw —"
"Harry, I’m begging you, please!” said Hermione desperately. “Please let’s just check that Sirius isn’t at home before we go charging off to London — if we find out he’s not there then I swear I won’t try and stop you, I’ll come, I’ll d-do whatever it takes to try and save him —"
"Sirius is being tortured NOW!” shouted Harry. “We haven’t got time to waste —"
"But if this is a trick of V-Voldemort’s — Harry, we’ve got to check, we’ve got to —"
"How?” Harry demanded. “How’re we going to check?"
"We’ll have to use Umbridge’s fire and see if we can contact him,” said Hermione, who looked positively terrified at the thought. “We’ll draw Umbridge away again, but we’ll need lookouts, and that’s where we can use Ginny and Luna."
"Yeah, we’ll do it,” and Luna said, “When you say ‘Sirius,’ are you talking about Stubby Boardman?"
"Okay,” Harry said aggressively to Hermione, “Okay, if you can think of a way of doing this quickly, I’m with you, otherwise I’m going to the Department of Mysteries right now —"
"The Department of Mysteries?” said Luna, looking mildly surprised. “But how are you going to get there?"
"Right,” said Hermione, twisting her hands together and pacing up and down between the desks. “Right . . . well . . . One of us has to go and find Umbridge and — and send her off in the wrong direction, keep her away from her office. They could tell her — I don’t know — that Peeves is up to something awful as usual . . ."
"I’ll do it,” said Ron at once. “I’ll tell her Peeves is smashing up the Transfiguration department or something, it’s miles away from her office. Come to think of it, I could probably persuade Peeves to do it if I met him on the way . . ."
"Okay,” she said, her brow furrowed as she continued to pace. “Now, we need to keep students away from her office while we force entry, or some Slytherin’s bound to go and tip her off . . ."
"Luna and I can stand at either end of the corridor,” said Ginny promptly, “and warn people not to go down there because someone’s let off a load of Garroting Gas.” Hermione looked surprised at the readiness with which Ginny had come up with this lie. Ginny shrugged and said, “Fred and George were planning to do it before they left."
"Okay,” said Hermione, “well then, Harry, you and I will be under the Invisibility Cloak, and we’ll sneak into the office and you can talk to Sirius —"
"He’s not there, Hermione!"
"I mean, you can — can check whether Sirius is at home or not while I keep watch, I don’t think you should be in there alone, Lee’s already proved the window’s a weak spot, sending those nifflers through it."
"I . . . okay, thanks,"
"Right, well, even if we do all of that, I don’t think we’re going to be able to bank on more than five minutes,” said Hermione, looking relieved that Harry seemed to have accepted the plan, “not with Filch and the wretched Inquisitorial Squad floating around."
"Five minutes’ll be enough,” said Harry. “C’mon, let’s go —"
"Now?"
"Of course now!” said Harry angrily. “What did you think, we’re going to wait until after dinner or something? Hermione, Sirius is being tortured right now!"
"I — oh all right,” she said desperately. “You go and get the Invisibility Cloak and we’ll meet you at the end of Umbridge’s corridor, okay?"
"Harry, d’you want to chip in a couple of Galleons? Harold Dingle reckons he could sell us some firewhisky . . ."
"Got it,” he panted. “Ready to go, then?"
"All right,” whispered Hermione as a gang of loud sixth years passed them. “So Ron — you go and head Umbridge off. . . . Ginny, Luna, if you can start moving people out of the corridor. . . . Harry and I will get the Cloak on and wait until the coast is clear . . ."
"Get over here,” muttered Hermione, tugging at Harry’s wrist and pulling him back into a recess where the ugly stone head of a medieval wizard stood muttering to itself on a column. “Are — are you sure you’re okay, Harry? You’re still very pale . . ."
"I’m fine,"
"Here,"
"You can’t come down here!” Ginny was calling to the crowd. “No, sorry, you’re going to have to go round by the swiveling staircase, someone’s let off Garroting Gas just along here —"
"I can’t see no gas . . ."
"That’s because it’s colorless,” said Ginny in a convincingly exasperated voice, “but if you want to walk through it, carry on, then we’ll have your body as proof for the next idiot who didn’t believe us . . ."
"I think that’s as good as we’re going to get, Harry — come on, let’s do it."
"Good one . . . don’t forget the signal . . ."
"What’s the signal?"
"A loud chorus of ‘Weasley Is Our King’ if they see Umbridge coming,"
"I thought she might have added extra security after the second niffler . . ."
"Number twelve, Grimmauld Place!"
"Sirius?” he shouted. “Sirius, are you there?"
"Who’s there?"
"It’s the Potter boy’s head in the fire,” Kreacher informed the empty kitchen, stealing furtive, oddly triumphant glances at Harry. “What has he come for, Kreacher wonders?"
"Where’s Sirius, Kreacher?"
"Master has gone out, Harry Potter."
"Where’s he gone? Where’s he gone, Kreacher?"
"I’m warning you!” said Harry, fully aware that his scope for inflicting punishment upon Kreacher was almost nonexistent in this position. “What about Lupin? Mad-Eye? Any of them, are any of them here?"
"Nobody here but Kreacher!” said the elf gleefully, and turning away from Harry he began to walk slowly toward the door at the end of the kitchen. “Kreacher thinks he will have a little chat with his Mistress now, yes, he hasn’t had a chance in a long time, Kreacher’s Master has been keeping him away from her —"
"Where has Sirius gone?” Harry yelled after the elf. “Kreacher, has he gone to the Department of Mysteries?"
"Master does not tell poor Kreacher where he is going,"
"But you know!” shouted Harry. “Don’t you? You know where he is!"
"Master will not come back from the Department of Mysteries!” he said gleefully. “Kreacher and his Mistress are alone again!"
"You — !"
"You think,” she whispered, bending Harry’s neck back even farther, so that he was looking up at the ceiling above him, “that after two nifflers I was going to let one more foul, scavenging little creature enter my office without my knowledge? I had Stealth Sensoring Spells placed all around my doorway after the last one got in, you foolish boy. Take his wand,” she barked at someone he could not see, and he felt a hand grope inside the chest pocket of his robes and remove the wand. “Hers too . . ."
"I want to know why you are in my office,"
"I was — trying to get my Firebolt!"
"Liar.” She shook his head again. “Your Firebolt is under strict guard in the dungeons, as you very well know, Potter. You had your head in my fire. With whom have you been communicating?"
"No one —"
"Liar!"
"Got ’em all,” said Warrington, shoving Ron roughly forward into the room. “That one,” he poked a thick finger at Neville, “tried to stop me taking her,” he pointed at Ginny, who was trying to kick the shins of the large Slytherin girl holding her, “so I brought him along too."
"Good, good,” said Umbridge, watching Ginny’s struggles. “Well, it looks as though Hogwarts will shortly be a Weasley-free zone, doesn’t it?"
"So, Potter,” she said. “You stationed lookouts around my office and you sent this buffoon,"
"Clearly, it was very important for you to talk to somebody. Was it Albus Dumbledore? Or the half-breed, Hagrid? I doubt it was Minerva McGonagall, I hear she is still too ill to talk to anyone . . ."
"It’s none of your business who I talk to,"
"Very well,” she said in her most dangerous and falsely sweet voice. “Very well, Mr. Potter . . . I offered you the chance to tell me freely. You refused. I have no alternative but to force you. Draco — fetch Professor Snape."
"You wanted to see me, Headmistress?"
"Ah, Professor Snape,” said Umbridge, smiling widely and standing up again. “Yes, I would like another bottle of Veritaserum, as quick as you can, please."
"You took my last bottle to interrogate Potter,” he said, observing her coolly through his greasy curtains of black hair. “Surely you did not use it all? I told you that three drops would be sufficient."
"You can make some more, can’t you?"
"Certainly,” said Snape, his lip curling. “It takes a full moon cycle to mature, so I should have it ready for you in around a month."
"A month?” squawked Umbridge, swelling toadishly. “A month? But I need it this evening, Snape! I have just found Potter using my fire to communicate with a person or persons unknown!"
"Really?” said Snape, showing his first, faint sign of interest as he looked around at Harry. “Well, it doesn’t surprise me. Potter has never shown much inclination to follow school rules."
"I wish to interrogate him!” shouted Umbridge angrily, and Snape looked away from Harry back into her furiously quivering face. “I wish you to provide me with a potion that will force him to tell me the truth!"
"I have already told you,” said Snape smoothly, “that I have no further stocks of Veritaserum. Unless you wish to poison Potter — and I assure you I would have the greatest sympathy with you if you did — I cannot help you. The only trouble is that most venoms act too fast to give the victim much time for truth-telling . . ."
"You are on probation!” shrieked Professor Umbridge, and Snape looked back at her, his eyebrows slightly raised. “You are being deliberately unhelpful! I expected better, Lucius Malfoy always speaks most highly of you! Now get out of my office!"
"He’s got Padfoot!” he shouted. “He’s got Padfoot at the place where it’s hidden!"
"Padfoot?” cried Professor Umbridge, looking eagerly from Harry to Snape. “What is Padfoot? Where what is hidden? What does he mean, Snape?"
"I have no idea,” said Snape coldly. “Potter, when I want nonsense shouted at me I shall give you a Babbling Beverage. And Crabbe, loosen your hold a little, if Longbottom suffocates it will mean a lot of tedious paperwork, and I am afraid I shall have to mention it on your reference if ever you apply for a job."
"Very well,” she said, and she pulled out her wand. “Very well . . . I am left with no alternative. . . . This is more than a matter of school discipline. . . . This is an issue of Ministry security. . . . Yes . . . yes . . ."
"You are forcing me, Potter. . . . I do not want to,” said Umbridge, still moving restlessly on the spot, “but sometimes circumstances justify the use . . . I am sure the Minister will understand that I had no choice . . ."
"The Cruciatus Curse ought to loosen your tongue,"
"No!” shrieked Hermione. “Professor Umbridge — it’s illegal"
"The Minister wouldn’t want you to break the law, Professor Umbridge!"
"What Cornelius doesn’t know won’t hurt him,” said Umbridge, who was now panting slightly as she pointed her wand at different parts of Harry’s body in turn, apparently trying to decide what would hurt the most. “He never knew I ordered dementors after Potter last summer, but he was delighted to be given the chance to expel him, all the same. . . ."
"It was you?” gasped Harry. “You sent the dementors after me?"
"Somebody had to act,” breathed Umbridge, as her wand came to rest pointing directly at Harry’s forehead. “They were all bleating about silencing you somehow — discrediting you — but I was the one who actually did something about it . . . Only you wriggled out of that one, didn’t you, Potter? Not today, though, not now . . ."
"Cruc —"
"NO!” shouted Hermione in a cracked voice from behind Millicent Bulstrode. “No — Harry — Harry, we’ll have to tell her!"
"No way!"
"We’ll have to, Harry, she’ll force it out of you anyway, what’s . . . what’s the point . . . ?"
"Well, well, well!” said Umbridge, looking triumphant. “Little Miss Question-All is going to give us some answers! Come on then, girl, come on!"
"Er — my — nee — no!"
"I’m — I’m sorry everyone,” said Hermione. “But — I can’t stand it —"
"That’s right, that’s right, girl!” said Umbridge, seizing Hermione by the shoulders, thrusting her into the abandoned chintz chair and leaning over her. “Now then . . . with whom was Potter communicating just now?"
"Well,” gulped Hermione into her hands, “well, he was trying to speak to Professor Dumbledore . . ."
"Dumbledore?” said Umbridge eagerly. “You know where Dumbledore is, then?"
"Well . . . no!” sobbed Hermione. “We’ve tried the Leaky Cauldron in Diagon Alley and the Three Broomsticks and even the Hog’s Head —"
"Idiot girl, Dumbledore won’t be sitting in a pub when the whole Ministry’s looking for him!"
"But — but we needed to tell him something important!"
"Yes?” said Umbridge with a sudden resurgence of excitement. “What was it you wanted to tell him?"
"We . . . we wanted to tell him it’s r-ready!"
"What’s ready?” demanded Umbridge, and now she grabbed Hermione’s shoulders again and shook her slightly. “What’s ready, girl?"
"The . . . the weapon,"
"Weapon? Weapon?” said Umbridge, and her eyes seemed to pop with excitement. “You have been developing some method of resistance? A weapon you could use against the Ministry? On Professor Dumbledore’s orders, of course?"
"Y-y-yes,” gasped Hermione. “But he had to leave before it was finished and n-n-now we’ve finished it for him, and we c-c-can’t find him t-t-to tell him!"
"What kind of weapon is it?"
"We don’t r-r-really understand it,” said Hermione, sniffing loudly. “We j-j-just did what P-P-Professor Dumbledore told us t-t-to do . . ."
"Lead me to the weapon,"
"I’m not showing . . . them,"
"It is not for you to set conditions,"
"Fine,” said Hermione, now sobbing into her hands again, “fine . . . let them see it, I hope they use it on you! In fact, I wish you’d invite loads and loads of people to come and see! Th-that would serve you right — oh, I’d love it if the wh-whole school knew where it was, and how to u-use it, and then if you annoy any of them they’ll be able to s-sort you out!"
"All right, dear, let’s make it just you and me . . . and we’ll take Potter too, shall we? Get up, now —"
"Professor,” said Malfoy eagerly, “Professor Umbridge, I think some of the squad should come with you to look after —"
"I am a fully qualified Ministry official, Malfoy, do you really think I cannot manage two wandless teenagers alone?” asked Umbridge sharply. “In any case, it does not sound as though this weapon is something that schoolchildren should see. You will remain here until I return and make sure none of these” — she gestured around at Ron, Ginny, Neville, and Luna — “escape."
"All right,"
"And you two can go ahead of me and show me the way,” said Umbridge, pointing at Harry and Hermione with her wand. “Lead on . . ."
"It’s hidden in Hagrid’s hut, is it?"
"Of course not,” said Hermione scathingly. “Hagrid might have set it off accidentally."
"Yes,” said Umbridge, whose excitement seemed to be mounting. “Yes, he would have done, of course, the great half-breed oaf . . ."
"Then . . . where is it?"
"In there, of course,” said Hermione, pointing into the dark trees. “It had to be somewhere that students weren’t going to find it accidentally, didn’t it?"
"Of course,” said Umbridge, though she sounded a little apprehensive now. “Of course . . . very well, then . . . you two stay ahead of me."
"Can we have your wand, then, if we’re going first?"
"No, I don’t think so, Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge sweetly, poking him in the back with it. “The Ministry places a rather higher value on my life than yours, I’m afraid."
"Is it very far in?"
"Oh yes,” said Hermione. “Yes, it’s well hidden."
"Er — are you sure this is the right way?"
"Oh yes,” she said in a steely voice, crashing through the undergrowth with what he thought was a wholly unnecessary amount of noise. Behind them, Umbridge tripped over a fallen sapling. Neither of them paused to help her up again; Hermione merely strode on, calling loudly over her shoulder, “It’s a bit further in!"
"Hermione, keep your voice down,” Harry muttered, hurrying to catch up with her. “Anything could be listening in here —"
"I want us heard,” she answered quietly, as Umbridge jogged noisily after them. “You’ll see . . ."
"How much further?"
"Not far now!” shouted Hermione, as they emerged into a dim, dank clearing. “Just a little bit —"
"Who are you?"
"I asked you who are you, human,"
"I am Dolores Umbridge!” said Umbridge in a high-pitched, terrified voice. “Senior Undersecretary to the Minister of Magic and Headmistress and High Inquisitor of Hogwarts!"
"You are from the Ministry of Magic?"
"That’s right!” said Umbridge in an even higher voice. “So be very careful! By the laws laid down by the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, any attack by half-breeds such as yourselves on a human —"
"What did you call us?"
"Don’t call them that!” Hermione said furiously, but Umbridge did not appear to have heard her. Still pointing her shaking wand at Magorian, she continued, “Law Fifteen B states clearly that ‘Any attack by a magical creature who is deemed to have near-human intelligence, and therefore considered responsible for its actions —’"
"‘Near-human intelligence’?” repeated Magorian, as Bane and several others roared with rage and pawed the ground. “We consider that a great insult, human! Our intelligence, thankfully, far outstrips your own —"
"What are you doing in our forest?” bellowed the hard-faced gray centaur whom Harry and Hermione had seen on their last trip into the forest. “Why are you here?"
"Your forest?” said Umbridge, shaking now not only with fright but also, it seemed, with indignation. “I would remind you that you live here only because the Ministry of Magic permits you certain areas of land —"
"Whose forest is it now, human?"
"Filthy half-breeds!” she screamed, her hands still tight over her head. “Beasts! Uncontrolled animals!"
"Be quiet!” shouted Hermione, but it was too late — Umbridge pointed her wand at Magorian and screamed, “Incarcerous!"
"Nooooo!” he heard Umbridge shriek. “Noooooo . . . I am Senior Undersecretary . . . you cannot . . . unhand me, you animals . . . nooooo!"
"Now!"
"And these?"
"They are young,” said a slow, doleful voice from behind Harry. “We do not attack foals."
"They brought her here, Ronan,” replied the centaur who had such a firm grip on Harry. “And they are not so young. . . . He is nearing manhood, this one . . ."
"Please,” said Hermione breathlessly, “please, don’t attack us, we don’t think like her, we aren’t Ministry of Magic employees! We only came in here because we hoped you’d drive her off for us —"
"You see, Ronan? They already have the arrogance of their kind! So we were to do your dirty work, were we, human girl? We were to act as your servants, drive away your enemies like obedient hounds?"
"No!” said Hermione in a horrorstruck squeak. “Please — I didn’t mean that! I just hoped you’d be able to — to help us —"
"We do not help humans!” snarled the centaur holding Harry, tightening his grip and rearing a little at the same time, so that Harry’s feet left the ground momentarily. “We are a race apart and proud to be so. . . . We will not permit you to walk from here, boasting that we did your bidding!"
"We’re not going to say anything like that!” Harry shouted. “We know you didn’t do anything because we wanted you to —"
"They came here unasked, they must pay the consequences!"
"They can join the woman!"
"You said you didn’t hurt the innocent!” shouted Hermione, real tears sliding down her face now. “We haven’t done anything to hurt you, we haven’t used wands or threats, we just want to go back to school, please let us go back —"
"We are not all like the traitor Firenze, human girl!” shouted the gray centaur, to more neighing roars of approval from his fellows. “Perhaps you thought us pretty talking horses? We are an ancient people who will not stand wizard invasions and insults! We do not recognize your laws, we do not acknowledge your superiority, we are —"
"Hagger."
"hagger"
"Hagger!"
"Get away from here, giant!” called Magorian. “You are not welcome among us!"
"HAGGER!"
"Harry!” she whispered. “I think he’s trying to say ‘Hagrid’!"
"Hermy."
"Goodness,” said Hermione, gripping Harry’s arm so tightly it was growing numb and looking as though she was about to faint, “he — he remembered!"
"HERMY!” roared Grawp. “WHERE HAGGER?"
"I don’t know!” squealed Hermione, terrified. “I’m sorry, Grawp, I don’t know!"
"GRAWP WANT HAGGER!"
"Oh no,” said Hermione, quaking so badly that her knees gave way. “Oh, that was horrible. And he might kill them all . . ."
"I’m not that fussed, to be honest,"
"Smart plan,” he spat at Hermione, keen to release some of his fury. “Really smart plan. Where do we go from here?"
"We need to get back up to the castle,"
"By the time we’ve done that, Sirius’ll probably be dead!"
"Well, we can’t do anything without wands,” said Hermione hopelessly, dragging herself up again. “Anyway, Harry, how exactly were you planning to get all the way to London?"
"Yeah, we were just wondering that,"
"So,” said Ron, pushing aside a low-hanging branch and holding out Harry’s wand, “had any ideas?"
"How did you get away?"
"Couple of Stunners, a Disarming Charm, Neville brought off a really nice little Impediment Jinx,” said Ron airily, now handing back Hermione’s wand too. “But Ginny was best, she got Malfoy — Bat-Bogey Hex — it was superb, his whole face was covered in the great flapping things. Anyway, we saw you heading into the forest out of the window and followed. What’ve you done with Umbridge?"
"She got carried away,” said Harry. “By a herd of centaurs."
"And they left you behind?"
"No, they got chased off by Grawp,"
"Who’s Grawp?"
"Hagrid’s little brother,” said Ron promptly. “Anyway, never mind that now. Harry, what did you find out in the fire? Has You-Know-Who got Sirius or — ?"
"Yes,” said Harry, as his scar gave another painful prickle, “and I’m sure Sirius is still alive, but I can’t see how we’re going to get there to help him."
"Well, we’ll have to fly, won’t we?"
"Okay,” said Harry irritably, rounding on her, “first of all, ‘we’ aren’t doing anything if you’re including yourself in that, and second of all, Ron’s the only one with a broomstick that isn’t being guarded by a security troll, so —"
"I’ve got a broom!"
"Yeah, but you’re not coming,"
"Excuse me, but I care what happens to Sirius as much as you do!"
"You’re too —"
"I’m three years older than you were when you fought You-Know-Who over the Sorcerer’s Stone,” she said fiercely, “and it’s because of me Malfoy’s stuck back in Umbridge’s office with giant flying bogeys attacking him —"
"Yeah, but —"
"We were all in the D.A. together,” said Neville quietly. “It was all supposed to be about fighting You-Know-Who, wasn’t it? And this is the first chance we’ve had to do something real — or was that all just a game or something?"
"No — of course it wasn’t —"
"Then we should come too,” said Neville simply. “We want to help."
"That’s right,"
"Well, it doesn’t matter anyway,” said Harry frustratedly, “because we still don’t know how to get there —"
"I thought we’d settled that?” said Luna maddeningly. “We’re flying!"
"Look,” said Ron, barely containing his anger, “you might be able to fly without a broomstick but the rest of us can’t sprout wings whenever we —"
"There are other ways of flying than with broomsticks,"
"I s’pose we’re going to ride on the back of the Kacky Snorgle or whatever it is?"
"The Crumple-Horned Snorkack can’t fly,” said Luna in a dignified voice, “but they can, and Hagrid says they’re very good at finding places their riders are looking for."
"Yes!"
"Is it those mad horse things?” said Ron uncertainly, staring at a point slightly to the left of the thestral Harry was patting. “Those ones you can’t see unless you’ve watched someone snuff it?"
"Yeah,"
"How many?"
"Just two."
"Well, we need three,"
"Four, Hermione,"
"I think there are six of us, actually,"
"Don’t be stupid, we can’t all go!” said Harry angrily. “Look, you three” — he pointed at Neville, Ginny, and Luna — “you’re not involved in this, you’re not —"
"Okay, fine, it’s your choice,” he said curtly. “But unless we can find more thestrals you’re not going to be able —"
"Oh, more of them will come,"
"What makes you think that?"
"Because in case you hadn’t noticed, you and Hermione are both covered in blood,” she said coolly, “and we know Hagrid lures thestrals with raw meat, so that’s probably why these two turned up in the first place . . ."
"Okay, then,” he said, a bright idea occurring. “Ron and I will take these two and go ahead, and Hermione can stay here with you three and she’ll attract more thestrals —"
"I’m not staying behind!"
"There’s no need,” said Luna, smiling. “Look, here come more now. . . . You two must really smell . . ."
"All right,” he said angrily, “pick one and get on, then."
"What?"
"How’re we supposed to get on?” said Ron faintly. “When we can’t see the things?"
"Oh it’s easy,” said Luna, sliding obligingly from her thestral and marching over to him, Hermione, and Ginny. “Come here . . ."
"This is mad,” Ron said faintly, moving his free hand gingerly up and down his horse’s neck. “Mad . . . if I could just see it —"
"You’d better hope it stays invisible,” said Harry darkly. “We all ready, then?"
"Okay . . ."
"Ministry of Magic, visitors’ entrance, London, then,” he said uncertainly. “Er . . . if you know . . . where to go . . ."
"This is bizarre!"
"Never again,” he said, struggling to his feet. He made as though to stride away from his thestral, but, unable to see it, collided with its hindquarters and almost fell over again. “Never, ever again . . . that was the worst —"
"Where do we go from here, then?"
"Over here,” he said. He gave his thestral a quick, grateful pat, then led the way quickly to the battered telephone box and opened the door. “Come on!"
"Whoever’s nearest the receiver, dial six two four four two!"
"Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business."
"Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger,” Harry said very quickly, “Ginny Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood . . . We’re here to save someone, unless your Ministry can do it first!"
"Thank you,” said the cool female voice. “Visitors, please take the badges and attach them to the front of your robes."
"Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and present your wand for registration at the security desk, which is located at the far end of the Atrium."
"Fine!” Harry said loudly, as his scar gave another throb. “Now can we move?"
"The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant evening,"
"Come on,"
"Department of Mysteries,"
"Let’s go,"
"Okay, listen,” said Harry, stopping again within six feet of the door. “Maybe . . . maybe a couple of people should stay here as a — as a lookout, and —"
"And how’re we going to let you know something’s coming?” asked Ginny, her eyebrows raised. “You could be miles away."
"We’re coming with you, Harry,"
"Let’s get on with it,"
"Someone shut the door,"
"What was that about?"
"I think it was to stop us knowing which door we came in from,"
"How’re we going to get back out?"
"Well, that doesn’t matter now,” said Harry forcefully, blinking to try and erase the blue lines from his vision, and clutching his wand tighter than ever. “We won’t need to get out till we’ve found Sirius —"
"Don’t go calling for him, though!"
"Where do we go, then, Harry?"
"I don’t —” Harry began. He swallowed. “In the dreams I went through the door at the end of the corridor from the lifts into a dark room — that’s this one — and then I went through another door into a room that kind of . . . glitters. We should try a few doors,” he said hastily. “I’ll know the right way when I see it. C’mon."
"What’re those things?"
"Dunno,"
"Are they fish?"
"Aquavirius maggots!” said Luna excitedly. “Dad said the Ministry were breeding —"
"No,” said Hermione. She sounded odd. She moved forward to look through the side of the tank. “They’re brains."
"Brains?"
"Yes . . . I wonder what they’re doing with them?"
"Let’s get out of here,” said Harry. “This isn’t right, we need to try another door —"
"There are doors here too,"
"In my dream I went through that dark room into the second one,” he said. “I think we should go back and try from there."
"Wait!” said Hermione sharply, as Luna made to close the door of the brain room behind them. “Flagrate!"
"Good thinking,” said Harry. “Okay, let’s try this one —"
"Who’s there?"
"Careful!"
"Sirius?"
"Let’s go,” called Hermione from halfway up the stone steps. “This isn’t right, Harry, come on, let’s go . . ."
"Harry, let’s go, okay?"
"Okay,"
"What are you saying?"
"Nobody’s talking, Harry!"
"Someone’s whispering behind there,” he said, moving out of her reach and continuing to frown at the veil. “Is that you, Ron?"
"I’m here, mate,"
"Can’t anyone else hear it?"
"I can hear them too,” breathed Luna, joining them around the side of the archway and gazing at the swaying veil. “There are people in there!"
"What do you mean, ‘in there’?” demanded Hermione, jumping down from the bottom step and sounding much angrier than the occasion warranted. “There isn’t any ‘in there,’ it’s just an archway, there’s no room for anybody to be there — Harry, stop it, come away —"
"Harry, we are supposed to be here for Sirius!"
"Sirius,” Harry repeated, still gazing, mesmerized, at the continuously swaying veil. “Yeah . . ."
"Let’s go,"
"That’s what I’ve been trying to — well, come on, then!"
"What d’you reckon that arch was?"
"I don’t know, but whatever it was, it was dangerous,"
"What’s wrong?"
"It’s . . . locked . . ."
"This is it, then, isn’t it?” said Ron excitedly, joining Harry in the attempt to force the door open. “Bound to be!"
"Get out of the way!” said Hermione sharply. She pointed her wand at the place where a lock would have been on an ordinary door and said, “Alohomora!"
"Sirius’s knife!"
"Right, we’re leaving that room,"
"But what if that’s the one?"
"It can’t be, Harry could get through all the doors in his dream,"
"You know what could be in there?"
"Something blibbering, no doubt,"
"This is it!"
"This way!"
"Oh look!"
"Keep going!"
"You dawdled enough by that old arch!"
"This is it,” Harry said again, and his heart was now pumping so hard and fast he felt it must interfere with his speech. “It’s through here —"
"You said it was row ninety-seven,"
"Yeah,"
"We need to go right, I think,” whispered Hermione, squinting to the next row. “Yes . . . that’s fifty-four. . . ."
"Keep your wands out,"
"Ninety-seven!"
"He’s right down at the end,” said Harry, whose mouth had become slightly dry. “You can’t see properly from here . . ."
"He should be near here,” whispered Harry, convinced that every step was going to bring the ragged form of Sirius into view upon the darkened floor. “Anywhere here . . . really close . . ."
"Harry?"
"Somewhere about . . . here . . ."
"He might be . . .” Harry whispered hoarsely, peering down the alley next door. “Or maybe . . ."
"Harry?"
"What?"
"I . . . I don’t think Sirius is here."
"Harry?"
"What?"
"Have you seen this?"
"What?"
"What?"
"It’s — it’s got your name on,"
"My name?"
"What is it?” Ron asked, sounding unnerved. “What’s your name doing down here?"
"I’m not here,” he said, sounding perplexed. “None of the rest of us are here . . ."
"Harry, I don’t think you should touch it,"
"Why not?” he said. “It’s something to do with me, isn’t it?"
"Don’t, Harry,"
"It’s got my name on,"
"Very good, Potter. Now turn around, nice and slowly, and give that to me."
"To me, Potter,"
"To me,"
"Where’s Sirius?"
"The Dark Lord always knows!"
"Always,” echoed Malfoy softly. “Now, give me the prophecy, Potter."
"I want to know where Sirius is!"
"I want to know where Sirius is!"
"You’ve got him,” said Harry, ignoring the rising panic in his chest, the dread he had been fighting since they had first entered the ninety-seventh row. “He’s here. I know he is."
"The little baby woke up fwightened and fort what it dweamed was twoo,"
"Don’t do anything,” he muttered. “Not yet —"
"You hear him? You hear him? Giving instructions to the other children as though he thinks of fighting us!"
"Oh, you don’t know Potter as I do, Bellatrix,” said Malfoy softly. “He has a great weakness for heroics; the Dark Lord understands this about him. Now give me the prophecy, Potter."
"I know Sirius is here,” said Harry, though panic was causing his chest to constrict and he felt as though he could not breathe properly. “I know you’ve got him!"
"It’s time you learned the difference between life and dreams, Potter,” said Malfoy. “Now give me the prophecy, or we start using wands."
"Go on, then,"
"Hand over the prophecy and no one need get hurt,"
"Yeah, right!” he said. “I give you this — prophecy, is it? And you’ll just let us skip off home, will you?"
"Accio Proph —"
"Protego!"
"Oh, he knows how to play, little bitty baby Potter,” she said, her mad eyes staring through the slits in her hood. “Very well, then —"
"I TOLD YOU, NO!” Lucius Malfoy roared at the woman. “If you smash it — !"
"You need more persuasion?” she said, her chest rising and falling rapidly. “Very well — take the smallest one,” she ordered the Death Eaters beside her. “Let him watch while we torture the little girl. I’ll do it."
"You’ll have to smash this if you want to attack any of us,” he told Bellatrix. “I don’t think your boss will be too pleased if you come back without it, will he?"
"So,” said Harry, “what kind of prophecy are we talking about anyway?"
"What kind of prophecy?” repeated Bellatrix, the grin fading from her face. “You jest, Harry Potter."
"Nope, not jesting,” said Harry, his eyes flicking from Death Eater to Death Eater, looking for a weak link, a space through which they could escape. “How come Voldemort wants it?"
"You dare speak his name?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, maintaining his tight grip on the glass ball, expecting another attempt to bewitch it from him. “Yeah, I’ve got no problem saying Vol —"
"Shut your mouth!” Bellatrix shrieked. “You dare speak his name with your unworthy lips, you dare besmirch it with your half-blood’s tongue, you dare —"
"Did you know he’s a half-blood too?” said Harry recklessly. Hermione gave a little moan in his ear. “Voldemort? Yeah, his mother was a witch but his dad was a Muggle — or has he been telling you lot he’s pureblood?"
"STUPEF —"
"NO!"
". . . at the Solstice will come a new . . ."
"DO NOT ATTACK! WE NEED THE PROPHECY!"
"He dared — he dares —” shrieked Bellatrix incoherently. “— He stands there — filthy half-blood —"
"WAIT UNTIL WE’VE GOT THE PROPHECY!"
". . . and none will come after . . ."
"You haven’t told me what’s so special about this prophecy I’m supposed to be handing over,"
"Do not play games with us, Potter,"
"I’m not playing games,"
"What?"
"Dumbledore never told you that the reason you bear that scar was hidden in the bowels of the Department of Mysteries?"
"I — what?” said Harry, and for a moment he quite forgot his plan. “What about my scar?"
"What?"
"Can this be?” said Malfoy, sounding maliciously delighted; some of the Death Eaters were laughing again, and under cover of their laughter, Harry hissed to Hermione, moving his lips as little as possible, “Smash shelves —"
"Dumbledore never told you?” Malfoy repeated. “Well, this explains why you didn’t come earlier, Potter, the Dark Lord wondered why —"
"— when I say go —"
"— you didn’t come running when he showed you the place where it was hidden in your dreams. He thought natural curiosity would make you want to hear the exact wording . . ."
"Did he?” said Harry. Behind him he felt rather than heard Hermione passing his message to the others and he sought to keep talking, to distract the Death Eaters. “So he wanted me to come and get it, did he? Why?"
"Why?” Malfoy sounded incredulously delighted. “Because the only people who are permitted to retrieve a prophecy from the Department of Mysteries, Potter, are those about whom it was made, as the Dark Lord discovered when he attempted to use others to steal it for him."
"And why did he want to steal a prophecy about me?"
"About both of you, Potter, about both of you . . . Haven’t you ever wondered why the Dark Lord tried to kill you as a baby?"
"Someone made a prophecy about Voldemort and me?” he said quietly, gazing at Lucius Malfoy, his fingers tightening over the warm glass sphere in his hand. It was hardly larger than a Snitch and still gritty with dust. “And he’s made me come and get it for him? Why couldn’t he come and get it himself?"
"Get it himself?” shrieked Bellatrix on a cackle of mad laughter. “The Dark Lord, walk into the Ministry of Magic, when they are so sweetly ignoring his return? The Dark Lord, reveal himself to the Aurors, when at the moment they are wasting their time on my dear cousin?"
"So he’s got you doing his dirty work for him, has he?” said Harry. “Like he tried to get Sturgis to steal it — and Bode?"
"Very good, Potter, very good . . .” said Malfoy slowly. “But the Dark Lord knows you are not unintell —"
"NOW!"
"REDUCTO!"
"RUN!"
"Stupefy!"
"Colloportus!"
"Where — where are the others?"
"They must have gone the wrong way!"
"Listen!"
"Leave Nott, leave him, I say, the Dark Lord will not care for Nott’s injuries as much as losing that prophecy — Jugson, come back here, we need to organize! We’ll split into pairs and search, and don’t forget, be gentle with Potter until we’ve got the prophecy, you can kill the others if necessary — Bellatrix, Rodolphus, you take the left, Crabbe, Rabastan, go right — Jugson, Dolohov, the door straight ahead — Macnair and Avery, through here — Rookwood, over there — Mulciber, come with me!"
"What do we do?"
"Well, we don’t stand here waiting for them to find us, for a start,” said Harry. “Let’s get away from this door . . ."
"Stand aside!” said a rough voice. “Alohomora!"
"They might’ve run straight through to the hall,"
"Check under the desks,"
"STUPEFY!"
"Avada —"
"EXPELLIARMUS!"
"Get out of the way, Harry!"
"STUPEFY!"
"STUP —"
"STUPEFY!"
"Accio Wand!"
"Thanks,” he said, “right, let’s get out of —"
"Look out!"
"It’s time,” said Hermione in an awestruck voice. “Time . . ."
"RON?” Harry yelled, turning quickly from the monstrous transformation taking place before them. “GINNY? LUNA?"
"Harry!"
"You can’t hurt a baby!"
"Come on!"
"Collo —” began Hermione, but before she could complete the spell the door had burst open again and the two Death Eaters had come hurtling inside. With a cry of triumph, both yelled, “IMPEDIMENTA!"
"WE’VE GOT HIM!” yelled the Death Eater nearest Harry, “IN AN OFFICE OFF —"
"Silencio!"
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"Well done, Ha —"
"oh!"
"HERMIONE!"
"Like you won’t kill us all the moment I hand it over anyway!"
"Whaddever you do, Harry,” said Neville fiercely from under the desk, lowering his hands to show a clearly broken nose and blood pouring down his mouth and chin, “don’d gib it to him!"
"PETRIFICUS TOTALUS!"
"Hermione,” Harry said at once, shaking her as the baby-headed Death Eater blundered out of sight again. “Hermione, wake up . . ."
"Whaddid he do to her?"
"I dunno . . ."
"Dat’s a pulse, Harry, I’b sure id is . . ."
"She’s alive?"
"Yeah, I dink so . . ."
"Neville, we’re not far from the exit,” Harry whispered. “We’re right next to that circular room. . . . If we can just get you across it and find the right door before any more Death Eaters come, I’ll bet you can get Hermione up the corridor and into the lift. . . . Then you could find someone. . . . Raise the alarm . . ."
"And whad are you going do do?"
"I’ve got to find the others,"
"Well, I’b going do find dem wid you,"
"But Hermione —"
"We’ll dake her wid us,” said Neville firmly. “I’ll carry her — you’re bedder at fighding dem dan I ab —"
"Wait,” said Harry, snatching up Hermione’s wand from the floor and shoving it into Neville’s hand, “you’d better take this . . ."
"My gran’s going do kill be,” said Neville thickly, blood spattering from his nose as he spoke, “dat was by dad’s old wand . . ."
"He’s never going to notice us,” he whispered. “C’mon . . . keep close behind me . . ."
"So which way d’you reck — ?"
"Ron!” croaked Harry, dashing toward them. “Ginny — are you all — ?"
"Harry,” said Ron, giggling weakly, lurching forward, seizing the front of Harry’s robes and gazing at him with unfocused eyes. “There you are. . . . Ha ha ha . . . You look funny, Harry. . . . You’re all messed up . . ."
"Ginny?” Harry said fearfully. “What happened?"
"I think her ankle’s broken, I heard something crack,” whispered Luna, who was bending over her and who alone seemed to be unhurt. “Four of them chased us into a dark room full of planets, it was a very odd place, some of the time we were just floating in the dark —"
"Harry, we saw Uranus up close!” said Ron, still giggling feebly. “Get it, Harry? We saw Uranus — ha ha ha —"
"Anyway, one of them grabbed Ginny’s foot, I used the Reductor Curse and blew up Pluto in his face, but . . ."
"And what about Ron?"
"I don’t know what they hit him with,” said Luna sadly, “but he’s gone a bit funny, I could hardly get him along at all . . ."
"Harry,” said Ron, pulling Harry’s ear down to his mouth and still giggling weakly, “you know who this girl is, Harry? She’s Loony . . . Loony Lovegood . . . ha ha ha . . ."
"We’ve got to get out of here,” said Harry firmly. “Luna, can you help Ginny?"
"Yes,"
"It’s only my ankle, I can do it myself!"
"There they are!"
"Colloportus!"
"It doesn’t matter!” said a man’s voice. “There are other ways in — WE’VE GOT THEM, THEY’RE HERE!"
"Luna — Neville — help me!"
"Colloportus!"
"Collo — aaaaaaaaargh . . ."
"Get Potter!"
"Hey!” said Ron, who had staggered to his feet and was now tottering drunkenly toward Harry, giggling. “Hey, Harry, there are brains in here, ha ha ha, isn’t that weird, Harry?"
"Ron, get out of the way, get down —"
"Honest, Harry, they’re brains — look — Accio Brain!"
"Ha ha ha, Harry, look at it —” said Ron, watching it disgorge its gaudy innards. “Harry, come and touch it, bet it’s weird —"
"RON, NO!"
"Harry, look what’s happen — no — no, I don’t like it — no, stop — stop —"
"Diffindo!"
"Harry, it’ll suffocate him!"
"STUBEFY!” shouted Neville, wheeling around and waving Hermione’s wand at the oncoming Death Eaters. “STUBEFY, STUBEFY!"
"Potter, your race is run,” drawled Lucius Malfoy, pulling off his mask. “Now hand me the prophecy like a good boy . . ."
"Let — let the others go, and I’ll give it to you!"
"You are not in a position to bargain, Potter,” said Lucius Malfoy, his pale face flushed with pleasure. “You see, there are ten of us and only one of you . . . or hasn’t Dumbledore ever taught you how to count?"
"He’s dot alone!” shouted a voice from above them. “He’s still god be!"
"Neville — no — go back to Ron —"
"STUBEFY!” Neville shouted again, pointing his wand at each Death Eater in turn, “STUBEFY! STUBE —"
"It’s Longbottom, isn’t it?” sneered Lucius Malfoy. “Well, your grandmother is used to losing family members to our cause. . . . Your death will not come as a great shock . . ."
"Longbottom?” repeated Bellatrix, and a truly evil smile lit her gaunt face. “Why, I have had the pleasure of meeting your parents, boy . . ."
"I DOE YOU HAB!” roared Neville, and he fought so hard against his captor’s encircling grip that the Death Eater shouted, “Someone Stun him!"
"No, no, no,” said Bellatrix. She looked transported, alive with excitement as she glanced at Harry, then back at Neville. “No, let’s see how long Longbottom lasts before he cracks like his parents. . . . Unless Potter wants to give us the prophecy —"
"DON’D GIB ID DO DEM!” roared Neville, who seemed beside himself, kicking and writhing as Bellatrix drew nearer to him and his captor, her wand raised. “DON’D GIB ID DO DEM, HARRY!"
"Crucio!"
"That was just a taster!” said Bellatrix, raising her wand so that Neville’s screams stopped and he lay sobbing at her feet. She turned and gazed up at Harry. “Now, Potter, either give us the prophecy, or watch your little friend die the hard way!"
"Are you okay?"
"Yes,"
"And Ron?"
"I dink he’s all right — he was still fighding the brain when I left —"
"Give it to me,” growled a voice in his ear, “give me the prophecy —"
"AARGH!"
"STUPEFY!"
"Thanks!"
"Tarantallegra!” he shouted, his wand pointing at Neville, whose legs went immediately into a kind of frenzied tap dance, unbalancing him and causing him to fall to the floor again. “Now, Potter —"
"Protego!"
"Accio Proph —"
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"Nice one!” shouted Sirius, forcing Harry’s head down as a pair of Stunning Spells flew toward them. “Now I want you to get out of —"
"Harry, take the prophecy, grab Neville, and run!"
"Can you stand?” he bellowed in Neville’s ear, as Neville’s legs jerked and twitched uncontrollably. “Put your arm round my neck —"
"The prophecy, give me the prophecy, Potter!"
"No — get — off — me . . . Neville — catch it!"
"Impedimenta!"
"Harry, round up the others and GO!"
"Come on!” said Harry desperately, hauling at Neville’s robes. “Just try and push with your legs —"
"Harry, I’b sorry!” cried Neville, his face anguished as his legs continued to flounder, “I’b so sorry, Harry, I didn’d bean do —"
"It doesn’t matter!” Harry shouted. “Just try and stand, let’s get out of —"
"Dubbledore!"
"What?"
"DUBBLEDORE!"
"Come on, you can do better than that!"
"SIRIUS!” Harry yelled, “SIRIUS!"
"There’s nothing you can do, Harry —"
"Get him, save him, he’s only just gone through!"
"It’s too late, Harry —"
"We can still reach him —"
"There’s nothing you can do, Harry . . . nothing. . . . He’s gone."
"SIRIUS!” he bellowed, “SIRIUS!"
"He can’t come back, Harry,” said Lupin, his voice breaking as he struggled to contain Harry. “He can’t come back, because he’s d —"
"HE — IS — NOT — DEAD!” roared Harry. “SIRIUS!"
"Harry?"
"Harry . . . I’b really sorry . . .” said Neville. His legs were still dancing uncontrollably. “Was dat man — was Sirius Black a — a friend of yours?"
"Here,” said Lupin quietly, and pointing his wand at Neville’s legs he said, “Finite.” The spell was lifted. Neville’s legs fell back onto the floor and remained still. Lupin’s face was pale. “Let’s — let’s find the others. Where are they all, Neville?"
"Dey’re all back dere,” said Neville. “A brain addacked Ron bud I dink he’s all righd — and Herbione’s unconscious, bud we could feel a bulse —"
"Harry — no!"
"SHE KILLED SIRIUS!” bellowed Harry. “SHE KILLED HIM — I’LL KILL HER!"
"Wingardium Leviosa!” and they flew into the air away from him. Slipping and sliding he ran on toward the door. He leapt over Luna, who was groaning on the floor, past Ginny, who said, “Harry — what — ?"
"Where’s the exit?” he shouted desperately, as the wall rumbled to a halt again. “Where’s the way out?"
"Come out, come out, little Harry!” she called in her mock-baby voice, which echoed off the polished wooden floors. “What did you come after me for, then? I thought you were here to avenge my dear cousin!"
"I am!"
"Aaaaaah . . . did you love him, little baby Potter?"
"Crucio!"
"Never used an Unforgivable Curse before, have you, boy?” she yelled. She had abandoned her baby voice now. “You need to mean them, Potter! You need to really want to cause pain — to enjoy it — righteous anger won’t hurt me for long — I’ll show you how it is done, shall I? I’ll give you a lesson —"
"Crucio!"
"Potter, you cannot win against me!” she cried. He could hear her moving to the right, trying to get a clear shot of him. He backed around the statue away from her, crouching behind the centaur’s legs, his head level with the house-elf’s. “I was and am the Dark Lord’s most loyal servant, I learned the Dark Arts from him, and I know spells of such power that you, pathetic little boy, can never hope to compete —"
"Stupefy!"
"Protego!"
"Potter, I am going to give you one chance!” shouted Bellatrix. “Give me the prophecy — roll it out toward me now — and I may spare your life!"
"Well, you’re going to have to kill me, because it’s gone!” Harry roared — and as he shouted it, pain seared across his forehead. His scar was on fire again, and he felt a surge of fury that was quite unconnected with his own rage. “And he knows!” said Harry with a mad laugh to match Bellatrix’s own. “Your dear old mate Voldemort knows it’s gone! He’s not going to be happy with you, is he?"
"What? What do you mean?"
"The prophecy smashed when I was trying to get Neville up the steps! What do you think Voldemort’ll say about that, then?"
"LIAR!” she shrieked, but he could hear the terror behind the anger now. “YOU’VE GOT IT, POTTER, AND YOU WILL GIVE IT TO ME — Accio Prophecy! ACCIO PROPHECY!"
"Nothing there!” he shouted. “Nothing to summon! It smashed and nobody heard what it said, tell your boss that —"
"No!” she screamed. “It isn’t true, you’re lying — MASTER, I TRIED, I TRIED — DO NOT PUNISH ME —"
"Don’t waste your breath!” yelled Harry, his eyes screwed up against the pain in his scar, now more terrible than ever. “He can’t hear you from here!"
"Can’t I, Potter?"
"So you smashed my prophecy?” said Voldemort softly, staring at Harry with those pitiless red eyes. “No, Bella, he is not lying. . . . I see the truth looking at me from within his worthless mind. . . . Months of preparation, months of effort . . . and my Death Eaters have let Harry Potter thwart me again . . ."
"Master, I am sorry, I knew not, I was fighting the Animagus Black!” sobbed Bellatrix, flinging herself down at Voldemort’s feet as he paced slowly nearer. “Master, you should know —"
"Be quiet, Bella,” said Voldemort dangerously. “I shall deal with you in a moment. Do you think I have entered the Ministry of Magic to hear your sniveling apologies?"
"But Master — he is here — he is below —"
"I have nothing more to say to you, Potter,” he said quietly. “You have irked me too often, for too long. AVADA KEDAVRA!"
"What — ?” said Voldemort, staring around. And then he breathed, “Dumbledore!"
"It was foolish to come here tonight, Tom,” said Dumbledore calmly. “The Aurors are on their way —"
"By which time I shall be gone, and you dead!"
"You do not seek to kill me, Dumbledore?” called Voldemort, his scarlet eyes narrowed over the top of the shield. “Above such brutality, are you?"
"We both know that there are other ways of destroying a man, Tom,” Dumbledore said calmly, continuing to walk toward Voldemort as though he had not a fear in the world, as though nothing had happened to interrupt his stroll up the hall. “Merely taking your life would not satisfy me, I admit —"
"There is nothing worse than death, Dumbledore!"
"You are quite wrong,” said Dumbledore, still closing in upon Voldemort and speaking as lightly as though they were discussing the matter over drinks. Harry felt scared to see him walking along, undefended, shieldless. He wanted to cry out a warning, but his headless guard kept shunting him backward toward the wall, blocking his every attempt to get out from behind it. “Indeed, your failure to understand that there are things much worse than death has always been your greatest weakness —"
"Look out!"
"MASTER!"
"Stay where you are, Harry!"
"Kill me now, Dumbledore . . ."
"If death is nothing, Dumbledore, kill the boy . . ."
"Are you all right, Harry?"
"Yes,” said Harry, shaking so violently he could not hold his head up properly. “Yeah, I’m — where’s Voldemort, where — who are all these — what’s —"
"He was there!” shouted a scarlet-robed man with a ponytail, who was pointing at a pile of golden rubble on the other side of the hall, where Bellatrix had lain trapped moments before. “I saw him, Mr. Fudge, I swear, it was You-Know-Who, he grabbed a woman and Disapparated!"
"I know, Williamson, I know, I saw him too!” gibbered Fudge, who was wearing pajamas under his pinstriped cloak and was gasping as though he had just run miles. “Merlin’s beard — here — here! — in the Ministry of Magic! — great heavens above — it doesn’t seem possible — my word — how can this be?"
"If you proceed downstairs into the Department of Mysteries, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, apparently satisfied that Harry was all right, and walking forward so that the newcomers realized he was there for the first time (a few of them raised their wands, others simply looked amazed; the statues of the elf and goblin applauded and Fudge jumped so much that his slipper-clad feet left the floor), “you will find several escaped Death Eaters contained in the Death Chamber, bound by an Anti-Disapparation Jinx and awaiting your decision as to what to do with them."
"Dumbledore!” gasped Fudge, apparently beside himself with amazement. “You — here — I — I —"
"Seize him!"
"Cornelius, I am ready to fight your men — and win again!” said Dumbledore in a thunderous voice. “But a few minutes ago you saw proof, with your own eyes, that I have been telling you the truth for a year. Lord Voldemort has returned, you have been chasing the wrong men for twelve months, and it is time you listened to sense!"
"I — don’t — well —” blustered Fudge, looking around as though hoping somebody was going to tell him what to do. When nobody did, he said, “Very well — Dawlish! Williamson! Go down to the Department of Mysteries and see . . . Dumbledore, you — you will need to tell me exactly — the Fountain of Magical Brethren — what happened?"
"We can discuss that after I have sent Harry back to Hogwarts,"
"Harry — Harry Potter?"
"He-here?” said Fudge. “Why — what’s all this about?"
"I shall explain everything,” repeated Dumbledore, “when Harry is back at school."
"Portus."
"Now see here, Dumbledore!” said Fudge, as Dumbledore picked up the head and walked back to Harry carrying it. “You haven’t got authorization for that Portkey! You can’t do things like that right in front of the Minister of Magic, you — you —"
"You will give the order to remove Dolores Umbridge from Hogwarts,” said Dumbledore. “You will tell your Aurors to stop searching for my Care of Magical Creatures teacher so that he can return to work. I will give you . . .” Dumbledore pulled a watch with twelve hands from his pocket and glanced at it, “half an hour of my time tonight, in which I think we shall be more than able to cover the important points of what has happened here. After that, I shall need to return to my school. If you need more help from me you are, of course, more than welcome to contact me at Hogwarts. Letters addressed to the headmaster will find me."
"I — you —"
"Take this Portkey, Harry."
"I shall see you in half an hour,” said Dumbledore quietly. “One . . . two . . . three . . ."
"Ah . . . Harry Potter . . ."
"And what brings you here in the early hours of the morning?” said Phineas. “This office is supposed to be barred to all but the rightful headmaster. Or has Dumbledore sent you here? Oh, don’t tell me . . .” He gave another shuddering yawn. “Another message for my worthless great-great-grandson?"
"I hope this means,” said the corpulent, red-nosed wizard who hung on the wall behind Dumbledore’s desk, “that Dumbledore will soon be back with us?"
"Oh good,” said the wizard. “It has been very dull without him, very dull indeed."
"Dumbledore thinks very highly of you, as I am sure you know,” he said comfortably. “Oh yes. Holds you in great esteem."
"Thank you,"
"Well, Harry,” said Dumbledore, finally turning away from the baby bird, “you will be pleased to hear that none of your fellow students are going to suffer lasting damage from the night’s events."
"Good,"
"Madam Pomfrey is patching everybody up now,” said Dumbledore. “Nymphadora Tonks may need to spend a little time in St. Mungo’s, but it seems that she will make a full recovery."
"I know how you are feeling, Harry,"
"No, you don’t,"
"You see, Dumbledore?” said Phineas Nigellus slyly. “Never try to understand the students. They hate it. They would much rather be tragically misunderstood, wallow in self-pity, stew in their own —"
"That’s enough, Phineas,"
"There is no shame in what you are feeling, Harry,” said Dumbledore’s voice. “On the contrary . . . the fact that you can feel pain like this is your greatest strength."
"My greatest strength, is it?” said Harry, his voice shaking as he stared out at the Quidditch stadium, no longer seeing it. “You haven’t got a clue. . . . You don’t know . . ."
"What don’t I know?"
"I don’t want to talk about how I feel, all right?"
"Harry, suffering like this proves you are still a man! This pain is part of being human —"
"THEN — I — DON’T — WANT — TO — BE — HUMAN!” Harry roared, and he seized one of the delicate silver instruments from the spindle-legged table beside him and flung it across the room. It shattered into a hundred tiny pieces against the wall. Several of the pictures let out yells of anger and fright, and the portrait of Armando Dippet said, “Really!"
"I DON’T CARE!” Harry yelled at them, snatching up a lunascope and throwing it into the fireplace. “I’VE HAD ENOUGH, I’VE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I WANT IT TO END, I DON’T CARE ANYMORE —"
"You do care,” said Dumbledore. He had not flinched or made a single move to stop Harry demolishing his office. His expression was calm, almost detached. “You care so much you feel as though you will bleed to death with the pain of it."
"I — DON’T!"
"Oh yes, you do,” said Dumbledore, still more calmly. “You have now lost your mother, your father, and the closest thing to a parent you have ever known. Of course you care."
"YOU DON’T KNOW HOW I FEEL!” Harry roared. “YOU — STANDING THERE — YOU —"
"Let me out,"
"No,"
"Let me out,"
"No,"
"If you don’t — if you keep me in here — if you don’t let me —"
"By all means continue destroying my possessions,” said Dumbledore serenely. “I daresay I have too many."
"Let me out,"
"Not until I have had my say,"
"Do you — do you think I want to — do you think I give a — I DON’T CARE WHAT YOU’VE GOT TO SAY!” Harry roared. “I don’t want to hear anything you’ve got to say!"
"You will,” said Dumbledore sadly. “Because you are not nearly as angry with me as you ought to be. If you are to attack me, as I know you are close to doing, I would like to have thoroughly earned it."
"What are you talking — ?"
"It is my fault that Sirius died,” said Dumbledore clearly. “Or I should say almost entirely my fault — I will not be so arrogant as to claim responsibility for the whole. Sirius was a brave, clever, and energetic man, and such men are not usually content to sit at home in hiding while they believe others to be in danger. Nevertheless, you should never have believed for an instant that there was any necessity for you to go to the Department of Mysteries tonight. If I had been open with you, Harry, as I should have been, you would have known a long time ago that Voldemort might try and lure you to the Department of Mysteries, and you would never have been tricked into going there tonight. And Sirius would not have had to come after you. That blame lies with me, and with me alone."
"Please sit down,"
"Am I to understand,” said Phineas Nigellus slowly from Harry’s left, “that my great-great-grandson — the last of the Blacks — is dead?"
"Yes, Phineas,"
"I don’t believe it,"
"Harry, I owe you an explanation,” said Dumbledore. “An explanation of an old man’s mistakes. For I see now that what I have done, and not done, with regard to you, bears all the hallmarks of the failings of age. Youth cannot know how age thinks and feels. But old men are guilty if they forget what it was to be young . . . and I seem to have forgotten lately . . ."
"I guessed, fifteen years ago,” said Dumbledore, “when I saw the scar upon your forehead, what it might mean. I guessed that it might be the sign of a connection forged between you and Voldemort."
"You’ve told me this before, Professor,"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore apologetically. “Yes, but you see — it is necessary to start with your scar. For it became apparent, shortly after you rejoined the magical world, that I was correct, and that your scar was giving you warnings when Voldemort was close to you, or else feeling powerful emotion."
"I know,"
"And this ability of yours — to detect Voldemort’s presence, even when he is disguised, and to know what he is feeling when his emotions are roused — has become more and more pronounced since Voldemort returned to his own body and his full powers."
"More recently,” said Dumbledore, “I became concerned that Voldemort might realize that this connection between you exists. Sure enough, there came a time when you entered so far into his mind and thoughts that he sensed your presence. I am speaking, of course, of the night when you witnessed the attack on Mr. Weasley."
"Yeah, Snape told me,"
"Professor Snape, Harry,” Dumbledore corrected him quietly. “But did you not wonder why it was not I who explained this to you? Why I did not teach you Occlumency? Why I had not so much as looked at you for months?"
"Yeah,” Harry mumbled. “Yeah, I wondered."
"You see,” continued Dumbledore heavily, “I believed it could not be long before Voldemort attempted to force his way into your mind, to manipulate and misdirect your thoughts, and I was not eager to give him more incentives to do so. I was sure that if he realized that our relationship was — or had ever been — closer than that of headmaster and pupil, he would seize his chance to use you as a means to spy on me. I feared the uses to which he would put you, the possibility that he might try and possess you. Harry, I believe I was right to think that Voldemort would have made use of you in such a way. On those rare occasions when we had close contact, I thought I saw a shadow of him stir behind your eyes. . . . I was trying, in distancing myself from you, to protect you. An old man’s mistake . . ."
"Voldemort’s aim in possessing you, as he demonstrated tonight, would not have been my destruction. It would have been yours. He hoped, when he possessed you briefly a short while ago, that I would sacrifice you in the hope of killing him."
"Sirius told me that you felt Voldemort awake inside you the very night that you had the vision of Arthur Weasley’s attack. I knew at once that my worst fears were correct: Voldemort from that point had realized he could use you. In an attempt to arm you against Voldemort’s assaults on your mind, I arranged Occlumency lessons with Professor Snape."
"Professor Snape discovered,"
"And then you saw Rookwood, who worked in the Department of Mysteries before his arrest, telling Voldemort what we had known all along — that the prophecies held in the Ministry of Magic are heavily protected. Only the people to whom they refer can lift them from the shelves without suffering madness. In this case, either Voldemort himself would have to enter the Ministry of Magic and risk revealing himself at last — or else you would have to take it for him. It became a matter of even greater urgency that you should master Occlumency."
"But I didn’t,” muttered Harry. He said it aloud to try and ease the dead weight of guilt inside him; a confession must surely relieve some of the terrible pressure squeezing his heart. “I didn’t practice, I didn’t bother, I could’ve stopped myself having those dreams, Hermione kept telling me to do it, if I had he’d never have been able to show me where to go, and — Sirius wouldn’t — Sirius wouldn’t —"
"I tried to check he’d really taken Sirius, I went to Umbridge’s office, I spoke to Kreacher in the fire, and he said Sirius wasn’t there, he said he’d gone!"
"Kreacher lied,” said Dumbledore calmly. “You are not his master, he could lie to you without even needing to punish himself. Kreacher intended you to go to the Ministry of Magic."
"He — he sent me on purpose?"
"Oh yes. Kreacher, I am afraid, has been serving more than one master for months."
"How?” said Harry blankly. “He hasn’t been out of Grimmauld Place for years."
"Kreacher seized his opportunity shortly before Christmas,” said Dumbledore, “when Sirius, apparently, shouted at him to ‘get out.’ He took Sirius at his word and interpreted this as an order to leave the house. He went to the only Black family member for whom he had any respect left. . . . Black’s cousin Narcissa, sister of Bellatrix and wife of Lucius Malfoy."
"How do you know all this?"
"Kreacher told me last night,"
"When, however, you did not return from your trip into the forest with Dolores Umbridge, Professor Snape grew worried that you still believed Sirius to be a captive of Lord Voldemort’s. He alerted certain Order members at once."
"But Sirius did not wish to remain behind while the others went to search for you. He delegated to Kreacher the task of telling me what had happened. And so it was that when I arrived in Grimmauld Place shortly after they had all left for the Ministry, it was the elf who told me — laughing fit to burst — where Sirius had gone."
"He was laughing?"
"Oh yes,” said Dumbledore. “You see, Kreacher was not able to betray us totally. He is not Secret-Keeper for the Order, he could not give the Malfoys our whereabouts or tell them any of the Order’s confidential plans that he had been forbidden to reveal. He was bound by the enchantments of his kind, which is to say that he could not disobey a direct order from his master, Sirius. But he gave Narcissa information of the sort that is very valuable to Voldemort, yet must have seemed much too trivial for Sirius to think of banning him from repeating it."
"Like what?"
"Like the fact that the person Sirius cared most about in the world was you,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Like the fact that you were coming to regard Sirius as a mixture of father and brother. Voldemort knew already, of course, that Sirius was in the Order, that you knew where he was — but Kreacher’s information made him realize that the one person whom you would go to any lengths to rescue was Sirius Black."
"So . . . when I asked Kreacher if Sirius was there last night . . ."
"The Malfoys — undoubtedly on Voldemort’s instructions — had told him he must find a way of keeping Sirius out of the way once you had seen the vision of Sirius being tortured. Then, if you decided to check whether Sirius was at home or not, Kreacher would be able to pretend he was not. Kreacher injured Buckbeak the hippogriff yesterday, and at the moment when you made your appearance in the fire, Sirius was upstairs trying to tend to him."
"And Kreacher told you all this . . . and laughed?"
"He did not wish to tell me,” said Dumbledore. “But I am a sufficiently accomplished Legilimens myself to know when I am being lied to and I — persuaded him — to tell me the full story, before I left for the Department of Mysteries."
"And,” whispered Harry, his hands curled in cold fists on his knees, “and Hermione kept telling us to be nice to him —"
"She was quite right, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “I warned Sirius when we adopted twelve Grimmauld Place as our headquarters that Kreacher must be treated with kindness and respect. I also told him that Kreacher could be dangerous to us. I do not think that Sirius took me very seriously, or that he ever saw Kreacher as a being with feelings as acute as a human’s —"
"Don’t you blame — don’t you — talk — about Sirius like —” Harry’s breath was constricted, he could not get the words out properly. But the rage that had subsided so briefly had flared in him again; he would not let Dumbledore criticize Sirius. “Kreacher’s a lying — foul — he deserved —"
"Kreacher is what he has been made by wizards, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Yes, he is to be pitied. His existence has been as miserable as your friend Dobby’s. He was forced to do Sirius’s bidding, because Sirius was the last of the family to which he was enslaved, but he felt no true loyalty to him. And whatever Kreacher’s faults, it must be admitted that Sirius did nothing to make Kreacher’s lot easier —"
"DON’T TALK ABOUT SIRIUS LIKE THAT!"
"What about Snape?” Harry spat. “You’re not talking about him, are you? When I told him Voldemort had Sirius he just sneered at me as usual —"
"Harry, you know that Professor Snape had no choice but to pretend not to take you seriously in front of Dolores Umbridge,” said Dumbledore steadily, “but as I have explained, he informed the Order as soon as possible about what you had said. It was he who deduced where you had gone when you did not return from the forest. It was he too who gave Professor Umbridge fake Veritaserum when she was attempting to force you to tell of Sirius’s whereabouts . . ."
"Snape — Snape g-goaded Sirius about staying in the house — he made out Sirius was a coward —"
"Sirius was much too old and clever to have allowed such feeble taunts to hurt him,"
"Snape stopped giving me Occlumency lessons!” Harry snarled. “He threw me out of his office!"
"I am aware of it,” said Dumbledore heavily. “I have already said that it was a mistake for me not to teach you myself, though I was sure, at the time, that nothing could have been more dangerous than to open your mind even further to Voldemort while in my presence —"
"Snape made it worse, my scar always hurt worse after lessons with him —” Harry remembered Ron’s thoughts on the subject and plunged on. “How do you know he wasn’t trying to soften me up for Voldemort, make it easier for him to get inside my —"
"I trust Severus Snape,” said Dumbledore simply. “But I forgot — another old man’s mistake — that some wounds run too deep for the healing. I thought Professor Snape could overcome his feelings about your father — I was wrong."
"But that’s okay, is it?” yelled Harry, ignoring the scandalized faces and disapproving mutterings of the portraits covering the walls. “It’s okay for Snape to hate my dad, but it’s not okay for Sirius to hate Kreacher?"
"Sirius did not hate Kreacher,” said Dumbledore. “He regarded him as a servant unworthy of much interest or notice. Indifference and neglect often do much more damage than outright dislike. . . . The fountain we destroyed tonight told a lie. We wizards have mistreated and abused our fellows for too long, and we are now reaping our reward."
"SO SIRIUS DESERVED WHAT HE GOT, DID HE?"
"I did not say that, nor will you ever hear me say it,” Dumbledore replied quietly. “Sirius was not a cruel man, he was kind to house-elves in general. He had no love for Kreacher, because Kreacher was a living reminder of the home Sirius had hated."
"Yeah, he did hate it!” said Harry, his voice cracking, turning his back on Dumbledore and walking away. The sun was bright inside the room now, and the eyes of all the portraits followed him as he walked, without realizing what he was doing, without seeing the office at all. “You made him stay shut up in that house and he hated it, that’s why he wanted to get out last night —"
"I was trying to keep Sirius alive,"
"People don’t like being locked up!” Harry said furiously, rounding on him. “You did it to me all last summer —"
"It is time,” he said, “for me to tell you what I should have told you five years ago, Harry. Please sit down. I am going to tell you everything. I ask only a little patience. You will have your chance to rage at me — to do whatever you like — when I have finished. I will not stop you."
"Five years ago you arrived at Hogwarts, Harry, safe and whole, as I had planned and intended. Well — not quite whole. You had suffered. I knew you would when I left you on your aunt and uncle’s doorstep. I knew I was condemning you to ten dark and difficult years."
"But I knew too where Voldemort was weak. And so I made my decision. You would be protected by an ancient magic of which he knows, which he despises, and which he has always, therefore, underestimated — to his cost. I am speaking, of course, of the fact that your mother died to save you. She gave you a lingering protection he never expected, a protection that flows in your veins to this day. I put my trust, therefore, in your mother’s blood. I delivered you to her sister, her only remaining relative."
"She doesn’t love me,” said Harry at once. “She doesn’t give a damn —"
"But she took you,” Dumbledore cut across him. “She may have taken you grudgingly, furiously, unwillingly, bitterly, yet still she took you, and in doing so, she sealed the charm I placed upon you. Your mother’s sacrifice made the bond of blood the strongest shield I could give you."
"I still don’t —"
"While you can still call home the place where your mother’s blood dwells, there you cannot be touched or harmed by Voldemort. He shed her blood, but it lives on in you and her sister. Her blood became your refuge. You need return there only once a year, but as long as you can still call it home, there he cannot hurt you. Your aunt knows this. I explained what I had done in the letter I left, with you, on her doorstep. She knows that allowing you houseroom may well have kept you alive for the past fifteen years."
"Wait,” said Harry. “Wait a moment."
"You sent that Howler. You told her to remember — it was your voice —"
"I thought,” said Dumbledore, inclining his head slightly, “that she might need reminding of the pact she had sealed by taking you. I suspected the dementor attack might have awoken her to the dangers of having you as a surrogate son."
"It did,” said Harry quietly. “Well — my uncle more than her. He wanted to chuck me out, but after the Howler came she — she said I had to stay.” He stared at the floor for a moment, then said, “But what’s this got to do with . . ."
"Five years ago, then,"
"Yet there was a flaw in this wonderful plan of mine,” said Dumbledore. “An obvious flaw that I knew, even then, might be the undoing of it all. And yet, knowing how important it was that my plan should succeed, I told myself that I would not permit this flaw to ruin it. I alone could prevent this, so I alone must be strong. And here was my first test, as you lay in the hospital wing, weak from your struggle with Voldemort."
"I don’t understand what you’re saying,"
"Don’t you remember asking me, as you lay in the hospital wing, why Voldemort had tried to kill you when you were a baby?"
"Ought I to have told you then?"
"Do you see, Harry? Do you see the flaw in my brilliant plan now? I had fallen into the trap I had foreseen, that I had told myself I could avoid, that I must avoid."
"I don’t —"
"I cared about you too much,"
"But you came out of the maze last year, having watched Cedric Diggory die, having escaped death so narrowly yourself . . . and I did not tell you, though I knew, now Voldemort had returned, I must do it soon. And now, tonight, I know you have long been ready for the knowledge I have kept from you for so long, because you have proved that I should have placed the burden upon you before this. My only defense is this: I have watched you struggling under more burdens than any student who has ever passed through this school, and I could not bring myself to add another — the greatest one of all."
"I still don’t understand."
"Voldemort tried to kill you when you were a child because of a prophecy made shortly before your birth. He knew the prophecy had been made, though he did not know its full contents. He set out to kill you when you were still a baby, believing he was fulfilling the terms of the prophecy. He discovered, to his cost, that he was mistaken, when the curse intended to kill you backfired. And so, since his return to his body, and particularly since your extraordinary escape from him last year, he has been determined to hear that prophecy in its entirety. This is the weapon he has been seeking so assiduously since his return: the knowledge of how to destroy you."
"The prophecy’s smashed,” Harry said blankly. “I was pulling Neville up those benches in the — the room where the archway was, and I ripped his robes and it fell . . ."
"The thing that smashed was merely the record of the prophecy kept by the Department of Mysteries. But the prophecy was made to somebody, and that person has the means of recalling it perfectly."
"Who heard it?"
"I did,” said Dumbledore. “On a cold, wet night sixteen years ago, in a room above the bar at the Hog’s Head Inn. I had gone there to see an applicant for the post of Divination teacher, though it was against my inclination to allow the subject of Divination to continue at all. The applicant, however, was the great-great-granddaughter of a very famous, very gifted Seer, and I thought it common politeness to meet her. I was disappointed. It seemed to me that she had not a trace of the gift herself. I told her, courteously I hope, that I did not think she would be suitable for the post. I turned to leave."
"THE ONE WITH THE POWER TO VANQUISH THE DARK LORD APPROACHES. . . . BORN TO THOSE WHO HAVE THRICE DEFIED HIM, BORN AS THE SEVENTH MONTH DIES . . . AND THE DARK LORD WILL MARK HIM AS HIS EQUAL, BUT HE WILL HAVE POWER THE DARK LORD KNOWS NOT . . . AND EITHER MUST DIE AT THE HAND OF THE OTHER FOR NEITHER CAN LIVE WHILE THE OTHER SURVIVES. . . . THE ONE WITH THE POWER TO VANQUISH THE DARK LORD WILL BE BORN AS THE SEVENTH MONTH DIES . . ."
"Professor Dumbledore?” Harry said very quietly, for Dumbledore, still staring at the Pensieve, seemed completely lost in thought. “It . . . did that mean . . . What did that mean?"
"It meant,” said Dumbledore, “that the person who has the only chance of conquering Lord Voldemort for good was born at the end of July, nearly sixteen years ago. This boy would be born to parents who had already defied Voldemort three times."
"It means — me?"
"The odd thing is, Harry,” he said softly, “that it may not have meant you at all. Sybill’s prophecy could have applied to two wizard boys, both born at the end of July that year, both of whom had parents in the Order of the Phoenix, both sets of parents having narrowly escaped Voldemort three times. One, of course, was you. The other was Neville Longbottom."
"But then . . . but then, why was it my name on the prophecy and not Neville’s?"
"The official record was relabeled after Voldemort’s attack on you as a child,” said Dumbledore. “It seemed plain to the keeper of the Hall of Prophecy that Voldemort could only have tried to kill you because he knew you to be the one to whom Sybill was referring."
"Then — it might not be me?"
"I am afraid,” said Dumbledore slowly, looking as though every word cost him a great effort, “that there is no doubt that it is you."
"But you said — Neville was born at the end of July too — and his mum and dad —"
"You are forgetting the next part of the prophecy, the final identifying feature of the boy who could vanquish Voldemort. . . . Voldemort himself would ‘mark him as his equal.’ And so he did, Harry. He chose you, not Neville. He gave you the scar that has proved both blessing and curse."
"But he might have chosen wrong!” said Harry. “He might have marked the wrong person!"
"He chose the boy he thought most likely to be a danger to him,” said Dumbledore. “And notice this, Harry. He chose, not the pureblood (which, according to his creed, is the only kind of wizard worth being or knowing), but the half-blood, like himself. He saw himself in you before he had ever seen you, and in marking you with that scar, he did not kill you, as he intended, but gave you powers, and a future, which have fitted you to escape him not once, but four times so far — something that neither your parents, nor Neville’s parents, ever achieved."
"Why did he do it, then?” said Harry, who felt numb and cold. “Why did he try and kill me as a baby? He should have waited to see whether Neville or I looked more dangerous when we were older and tried to kill whoever it was then —"
"That might, indeed, have been the more practical course,” said Dumbledore, “except that Voldemort’s information about the prophecy was incomplete. The Hog’s Head Inn, which Sybill chose for its cheapness, has long attracted, shall we say, a more interesting clientele than the Three Broomsticks. As you and your friends found out to your cost, and I to mine that night, it is a place where it is never safe to assume you are not being overheard. Of course, I had not dreamed, when I set out to meet Sybill Trelawney, that I would hear anything worth overhearing. My — our — one stroke of good fortune was that the eavesdropper was detected only a short way into the prophecy and thrown from the building."
"So he only heard . . . ?"
"He heard only the first part, the part foretelling the birth of a boy in July to parents who had thrice defied Voldemort. Consequently, he could not warn his master that to attack you would be to risk transferring power to you — again marking you as his equal. So Voldemort never knew that there might be danger in attacking you, that it might be wise to wait or to learn more. He did not know that you would have ‘power the Dark Lord knows not’ —"
"But I don’t!” said Harry in a strangled voice. “I haven’t any powers he hasn’t got, I couldn’t fight the way he did tonight, I can’t possess people or — or kill them —"
"There is a room in the Department of Mysteries,” interrupted Dumbledore, “that is kept locked at all times. It contains a force that is at once more wonderful and more terrible than death, than human intelligence, than forces of nature. It is also, perhaps, the most mysterious of the many subjects for study that reside there. It is the power held within that room that you possess in such quantities and which Voldemort has not at all. That power took you to save Sirius tonight. That power also saved you from possession by Voldemort, because he could not bear to reside in a body so full of the force he detests. In the end, it mattered not that you could not close your mind. It was your heart that saved you."
"The end of the prophecy . . . it was something about . . . ‘neither can live . . . ’"
"‘ . . . while the other survives,’"
"So,” said Harry, dredging up the words from what felt like a deep well of despair inside him, “so does that mean that . . . that one of us has got to kill the other one . . . in the end?"
"Yes,"
"I feel I owe you another explanation, Harry,” said Dumbledore hesitantly. “You may, perhaps, have wondered why I never chose you as a prefect? I must confess . . . that I rather thought . . . you had enough responsibility to be going on with."
"It is with great regret that I must confirm that the wizard styling himself Lord — well, you know who I mean — is alive and among us again,"
"We urge the magical population to remain vigilant. The Ministry is currently publishing guides to elementary home and personal defense that will be delivered free to all Wizarding homes within the coming month."
"no truth whatsoever in these persistent rumors that You-Know-Who is operating amongst us once more."
"There you are, Harry, I knew they’d drag you into it somehow,"
"He’s ‘the Boy Who Lived’ again now, though, isn’t he?” said Ron darkly. “Not such a show-off maniac anymore, eh?"
"Yes, they’re very complimentary about you now, Harry,” said Hermione, now scanning down the article. “‘A lone voice of truth . . . perceived as unbalanced, yet never wavered in his story . . . forced to bear ridicule and slander . . . ’ Hmmm,” said Hermione, frowning, “I notice they don’t mention the fact that it was them doing all the ridiculing and slandering, though . . ."
"quite enough damage to be going on with."
"‘You-Know-Who’s Last Attempt to Take Over, pages two to four, What the Ministry Should Have Told Us, page five, Why Nobody Listened to Albus Dumbledore, pages six to eight, Exclusive Interview with Harry Potter, page nine . . .’ Well,” said Hermione, folding up the newspaper and throwing it aside, “it’s certainly given them lots to write about. And that interview with Harry isn’t exclusive, it’s the one that was in The Quibbler months ago . . ."
"Daddy sold it to them,” said Luna vaguely, turning a page of The Quibbler. “He got a very good price for it too, so we’re going to go on an expedition to Sweden this summer and see if we can catch a Crumple-Horned Snorkack."
"That sounds lovely."
"So anyway,” said Hermione, sitting up a little straighter and wincing again, “what’s going on in school?"
"Well, Flitwick’s got rid of Fred and George’s swamp,” said Ginny. “He did it in about three seconds. But he left a tiny patch under the window and he’s roped it off —"
"Why?"
"Oh, he just says it was a really good bit of magic,"
"I think he left it as a monument to Fred and George,” said Ron through a mouthful of chocolate. “They sent me all these, you know,” he told Harry, pointing at the small mountain of Frogs beside him. “Must be doing all right out of that joke shop, eh?"
"So has all the trouble stopped now Dumbledore’s back?"
"Yes,” said Neville, “everything’s settled right back down again."
"I s’pose Filch is happy, is he?"
"Not at all,” said Ginny. “He’s really, really miserable, actually . . .” She lowered her voice to a whisper. “He keeps saying Umbridge was the best thing that ever happened to Hogwarts . . ."
"Madam Pomfrey says she’s just in shock,"
"Sulking, more like,"
"Yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this,"
"Anything wrong, Professor?"
"No . . . no . . .” said Umbridge, sinking back into her pillows, “no, I must have been dreaming . . ."
"Speaking of centaurs,” said Hermione, when she had recovered a little, “who’s Divination teacher now? Is Firenze staying?"
"He’s got to,” said Harry, “the other centaurs won’t take him back, will they?"
"It looks like he and Trelawney are both going to teach,"
"Bet Dumbledore wishes he could’ve got rid of Trelawney for good,” said Ron, now munching on his fourteenth Frog. “Mind you, the whole subject’s useless if you ask me, Firenze isn’t a lot better . . ."
"How can you say that?” Hermione demanded. “After we’ve just found out that there are real prophecies?"
"It is a pity it broke,"
"Yeah, it is,” said Ron. “Still, at least You-Know-Who never found out what was in it either — where are you going?"
"Er — Hagrid’s,” said Harry. “You know, he just got back and I promised I’d go down and see him and tell him how you two are . . ."
"Oh all right then,” said Ron grumpily, looking out of the dormitory window at the patch of bright blue sky beyond. “Wish we could come . . ."
"Say hello to him for us!” called Hermione, as Harry proceeded down the ward. “And ask him what’s happening about . . . about his little friend!"
"You’re dead, Potter."
"Funny,” he said, “you’d think I’d have stopped walking around . . ."
"You’re going to pay,” said Malfoy in a voice barely louder than a whisper. “I’m going to make you pay for what you’ve done to my father . . ."
"Well, I’m terrified now,” said Harry sarcastically. “I s’pose Lord Voldemort’s just a warm-up act compared to you three — what’s the matter?” he said, for Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had all looked stricken at the sound of the name. “He’s your dad’s mate, isn’t he? Not scared of him, are you?"
"You think you’re such a big man, Potter,” said Malfoy, advancing now, Crabbe and Goyle flanking him. “You wait. I’ll have you. You can’t land my father in prison —"
"I thought I just had,"
"The dementors have left Azkaban,” said Malfoy quietly. “Dad and the others’ll be out in no time . . ."
"Yeah, I expect they will,” said Harry. “Still, at least everyone knows what scumbags they are now —"
"Potter!"
"What are you doing, Potter?"
"I’m trying to decide what curse to use on Malfoy, sir,"
"Put that wand away at once,” he said curtly. “Ten points from Gryff —"
"Ah. I see there are no longer any points left in the Gryffindor hourglass to take away. In that case, Potter, we will simply have to —"
"Add some more?"
"Professor McGonagall!” said Snape, striding forward. “Out of St. Mungo’s, I see!"
"Yes, Professor Snape,” said Professor McGonagall, shrugging off her traveling cloak, “I’m quite as good as new. You two — Crabbe — Goyle —"
"Here,” said Professor McGonagall, thrusting her carpetbag into Crabbe’s chest and her cloak into Goyle’s, “take these up to my office for me."
"Right then,” said Professor McGonagall, looking up at the hourglasses on the wall, “well, I think Potter and his friends ought to have fifty points apiece for alerting the world to the return of You-Know-Who! What say you, Professor Snape?"
"What?” snapped Snape, though Harry knew he had heard perfectly well. “Oh — well — I suppose . . ."
"So that’s fifty each for Potter, the two Weasleys, Longbottom, and Miss Granger,” said Professor McGonagall, and a shower of rubies fell down into the bottom bulb of Gryffindor’s hourglass as she spoke. “Oh — and fifty for Miss Lovegood, I suppose,” she added, and a number of sapphires fell into Ravenclaw’s glass. “Now, you wanted to take ten from Mr. Potter, I think, Professor Snape — so there we are . . ."
"Well, Potter, Malfoy, I think you ought to be outside on a glorious day like this,"
"All righ’, Harry!"
"How’s things?” Hagrid asked him, as they settled down at his wooden table with a glass apiece of iced juice. “You — er — feelin’ all righ’, are yeh?"
"I’m fine,” Harry said quickly, because he could not bear to discuss the thing that he knew was in Hagrid’s mind. “So, where’ve you been?"
"Bin hidin’ out in the mountains,” said Hagrid. “Up in a cave, like Sirius did when he —"
"Anyway, back now,"
"You — you look better,"
"Wha’?” said Hagrid, raising a massive hand and feeling his face. “Oh — oh yeah. Well, Grawpy’s loads better behaved now, loads. Seemed right pleased ter see me when I got back, ter tell yeh the truth. He’s a good lad, really. . . . I’ve bin thinkin’ abou’ tryin’ ter find him a lady friend, actually . . ."
"Ev’ryone knows you’ve bin tellin’ the truth now, Harry,” said Hagrid softly and unexpectedly. “Tha’s gotta be better, hasn’ it?"
"Look . . .” Hagrid leaned toward him across the table, “I knew Sirius longer ’n you did. . . . He died in battle, an’ tha’s the way he’d’ve wanted ter go —"
"He didn’t want to go at all!"
"Nah, I don’ reckon he did,” he said quietly. “But still, Harry . . . he was never one ter sit around at home an’ let other people do the fightin’. He couldn’ have lived with himself if he hadn’ gone ter help —"
"I’ve got to go and visit Ron and Hermione in the hospital wing,"
"Oh,” said Hagrid, looking rather upset. “Oh . . . all righ’ then, Harry . . . Take care of yerself then, an’ drop back in if yeh’ve got a mo . . ."
"Yeah . . . right . . ."
"Just do it tomorrow!” said Ron, who was waiting by the door of their dormitory. “Come on, I’m starving . . ."
"I won’t be long. . . . Look, you go ahead . . ."
"Sirius."
"Sirius Black!"
"The feast is about to start, you know, you’re cutting it very fine!"
"Hey — hey Nick! NICK!"
"Good evening,” he said, withdrawing the rest of his body from the solid stone and smiling at Harry. “I am not the only one who is late, then? Though,” he sighed, “in rather different senses, of course . . ."
"Nick, can I ask you something?"
"Er — now, Harry?” said Nick, looking discomforted. “Can’t it wait until after the feast?"
"No — Nick — please,” said Harry, “I really need to talk to you. Can we go in here?"
"Oh very well,” he said, looking resigned. “I can’t pretend I haven’t been expecting it."
"Expecting what?"
"You to come and find me,” said Nick, now gliding over to the window and looking out at the darkening grounds. “It happens, sometimes . . . when somebody has suffered a . . . loss."
"Well,” said Harry, refusing to be deflected. “You were right, I’ve — I’ve come to find you."
"It’s —” said Harry, who was finding this more awkward than he had anticipated, “it’s just — you’re dead. But you’re still here, aren’t you?"
"That’s right, isn’t it?” Harry urged him. “You died, but I’m talking to you. . . . You can walk around Hogwarts and everything, can’t you?"
"Yes,” said Nearly Headless Nick quietly, “I walk and talk, yes."
"So, you came back, didn’t you?” said Harry urgently. “People can come back, right? As ghosts. They don’t have to disappear completely. Well?"
"Not everyone can come back as a ghost."
"What d’you mean?"
"Only . . . only wizards."
"Oh,” said Harry, and he almost laughed with relief. “Well, that’s okay then, the person I’m asking about is a wizard. So he can come back, right?"
"He won’t come back."
"Who?"
"Sirius Black,"
"But you did!” said Harry angrily. “You came back — you’re dead and you didn’t disappear —"
"Wizards can leave an imprint of themselves upon the earth, to walk palely where their living selves once trod,” said Nick miserably. “But very few wizards choose that path."
"Why not?” said Harry. “Anyway — it doesn’t matter — Sirius won’t care if it’s unusual, he’ll come back, I know he will!"
"He will not come back,” repeated Nick quietly. “He will have . . . gone on."
"What d’you mean, ‘gone on’?” said Harry quickly. “Gone on where? Listen — what happens when you die, anyway? Where do you go? Why doesn’t everyone come back? Why isn’t this place full of ghosts? Why — ?"
"I cannot answer,"
"You’re dead, aren’t you?” said Harry exasperatedly. “Who can answer better than you?"
"I was afraid of death,” said Nick. “I chose to remain behind. I sometimes wonder whether I oughtn’t to have . . . Well, that is neither here nor there. . . . In fact, I am neither here nor there . . .” He gave a small sad chuckle. “I know nothing of the secrets of death, Harry, for I chose my feeble imitation of life instead. I believe learned wizards study the matter in the Department of Mysteries —"
"Don’t talk to me about that place!"
"I am sorry not to have been more help,” said Nick gently. “Well . . . well, do excuse me . . . the feast, you know . . ."
"Hello,"
"How come you’re not at the feast?"
"Well, I’ve lost most of my possessions,” said Luna serenely. “People take them and hide them, you know. But as it’s the last night, I really do need them back, so I’ve been putting up signs."
"How come people hide your stuff?"
"Oh . . . well . . .” She shrugged. “I think they think I’m a bit odd, you know. Some people call me ‘Loony’ Lovegood, actually."
"That’s no reason for them to take your things,” he said flatly. “D’you want help finding them?"
"Oh no,” she said, smiling at him. “They’ll come back, they always do in the end. It was just that I wanted to pack tonight. Anyway . . . why aren’t you at the feast?"
"Just didn’t feel like it."
"No,” said Luna, observing him with those oddly misty, protuberant eyes. “I don’t suppose you do. That man the Death Eaters killed was your godfather, wasn’t he? Ginny told me."
"Have you . . .” he began. “I mean, who . . . has anyone you’ve known ever died?"
"Yes,” said Luna simply, “my mother. She was a quite extraordinary witch, you know, but she did like to experiment and one of her spells went rather badly wrong one day. I was nine."
"I’m sorry,"
"Yes, it was rather horrible,” said Luna conversationally. “I still feel very sad about it sometimes. But I’ve still got Dad. And anyway, it’s not as though I’ll never see Mum again, is it?"
"Er — isn’t it?"
"Oh, come on. You heard them, just behind the veil, didn’t you?"
"You mean . . ."
"In that room with the archway. They were just lurking out of sight, that’s all. You heard them."
"Are you sure you don’t want me to help you look for your stuff?"
"Oh no,” said Luna. “No, I think I’ll just go down and have some pudding and wait for it all to turn up. . . . It always does in the end. . . . Well, have a nice holiday, Harry."
"Yeah . . . yeah, you too."
"I must say, I’m looking forward to seeing Malfoy’s mother’s face when he gets off the train,"
"Goyle’s mum’ll be really pleased, though,” said Ron, who had come to investigate the source of the commotion. “He’s loads better-looking now. . . . Anyway, Harry, the food trolley’s just stopped if you want anything . . ."
"It hasn’t really started yet,” sighed Hermione gloomily, folding up the newspaper again. “But it won’t be long now . . ."
"Hey, Harry,"
"What’s — er — going on with you and her anyway?"
"Nothing,"
"I — er — heard she’s going out with someone else now,"
"You’re well out of it, mate,” said Ron forcefully. “I mean, she’s quite good-looking and all that, but you want someone a bit more cheerful."
"She’s probably cheerful enough with someone else,"
"Who’s she with now anyway?"
"Michael Corner,"
"Michael — but —” said Ron, craning around in his seat to stare at her. “But you were going out with him!"
"Not anymore,” said Ginny resolutely. “He didn’t like Gryffindor beating Ravenclaw at Quidditch and got really sulky, so I ditched him and he ran off to comfort Cho instead."
"Well, I always thought he was a bit of an idiot,” he said, prodding his queen forward toward Harry’s quivering castle. “Good for you. Just choose someone — better — next time."
"Well, I’ve chosen Dean Thomas, would you say he’s better?"
"WHAT?"
"Ron, Ginny!” called Mrs. Weasley, hurrying forward and hugging her children tightly. “Oh, and Harry dear — how are you?"
"Fine,"
"What are they supposed to be?"
"Finest dragon skin, little bro,” said Fred, giving his zip a little tweak. “Business is booming and we thought we’d treat ourselves."
"Hello, Harry,"
"Hi,” said Harry. “I didn’t expect . . . what are you all doing here?"
"Well,” said Lupin with a slight smile, “we thought we might have a little chat with your aunt and uncle before letting them take you home."
"I dunno if that’s a good idea,"
"Oh, I think it is,” growled Moody, who had limped a little closer. “That’ll be them, will it, Potter?"
"Ah, Harry!” said Mr. Weasley, turning from Hermione’s parents, whom he had been greeting enthusiastically, and who were taking it in turns to hug Hermione. “Well — shall we do it, then?"
"Yeah, I reckon so, Arthur,"
"Good afternoon,” said Mr. Weasley pleasantly to Uncle Vernon, coming to a halt right in front of him. “You might remember me, my name’s Arthur Weasley."
"We thought we’d just have a few words with you about Harry,"
"Yeah,” growled Moody. “About how he’s treated when he’s at your place."
"I am not aware that it is any of your business what goes on in my house —"
"I expect what you’re not aware of would fill several books, Dursley,"
"Anyway, that’s not the point,” interjected Tonks, whose pink hair seemed to offend Aunt Petunia more than all the rest put together, for she closed her eyes rather than look at her. “The point is, if we find out you’ve been horrible to Harry —"
"— and make no mistake, we’ll hear about it,"
"Yes,” said Mr. Weasley, “even if you won’t let Harry use the fellytone —"
"Telephone,"
"Yeah, if we get any hint that Potter’s been mistreated in any way, you’ll have us to answer to,"
"Are you threatening me, sir?"
"Yes, I am,"
"And do I look like the kind of man who can be intimidated?"
"Well . . .” said Moody, pushing back his bowler hat to reveal his sinisterly revolving magical eye. Uncle Vernon leapt backward in horror and collided painfully with a luggage trolley. “Yes, I’d have to say you do, Dursley."
"So, Potter . . . give us a shout if you need us. If we don’t hear from you for three days in a row, we’ll send someone along . . ."
"’Bye, then, Potter,"
"Take care, Harry,” said Lupin quietly. “Keep in touch."
"Harry, we’ll have you away from there as soon as we can,"
"We’ll see you soon, mate,"
"Really soon, Harry,” said Hermione earnestly. “We promise."
"A grim mood has gripped the country,"
"Hello?"
"To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Urgent we meet. Kindly respond immediately. Sincerely, Fudge."
"Er,” said the Prime Minister, “listen. . . . It’s not a very good time for me. . . . I’m waiting for a telephone call, you see . . . from the President of —"
"That can be rearranged,"
"But I really was rather hoping to speak —"
"We shall arrange for the President to forget to call. He will telephone tomorrow night instead,” said the little man. “Kindly respond immediately to Mr. Fudge."
"I . . . oh . . . very well,” said the Prime Minister weakly. “Yes, I’ll see Fudge."
"Ah . . . Prime Minister,” said Cornelius Fudge, striding forward with his hand outstretched. “Good to see you again."
"How can I help you?"
"Difficult to know where to begin,” muttered Fudge, pulling up the chair, sitting down, and placing his green bowler upon his knees. “What a week, what a week . . ."
"Had a bad one too, have you?"
"Yes, of course,” said Fudge, rubbing his eyes wearily and looking morosely at the Prime Minister. “I’ve been having the same week you have, Prime Minister. The Brockdale Bridge . . . the Bones and Vance murders . . . not to mention the ruckus in the West Country . . ."
"You — er — your — I mean to say, some of your people were — were involved in those — those things, were they?"
"Of course they were,” he said. “Surely you’ve realized what’s going on?"
"I . . ."
"Not to worry,” he had said, “it’s odds-on you’ll never see me again. I’ll only bother you if there’s something really serious going on our end, something that’s likely to affect the Muggles — the non-magical population, I should say. Otherwise, it’s live and let live. And I must say, you’re taking it a lot better than your predecessor. He tried to throw me out the window, thought I was a hoax planned by the opposition."
"You’re — you’re not a hoax, then?"
"No,” said Fudge gently. “No, I’m afraid I’m not. Look."
"But,” said the Prime Minister breathlessly, watching his teacup chewing on the corner of his next speech, “but why — why has nobody told me — ?"
"The Minister of Magic only reveals him- or herself to the Muggle Prime Minister of the day,” said Fudge, poking his wand back inside his jacket. “We find it the best way to maintain secrecy."
"But then,” bleated the Prime Minister, “why hasn’t a former Prime Minister warned me — ?"
"My dear Prime Minister, are you ever going to tell anybody?"
"Serious” Black, something that sounded like “Hogwarts,"
". . . I’ve just come from Azkaban,” Fudge had panted, tipping a large amount of water out of the rim of his bowler hat into his pocket. “Middle of the North Sea, you know, nasty flight . . . the dementors are in uproar” — he shuddered — “they’ve never had a breakout before. Anyway, I had to come to you, Prime Minister. Black’s a known Muggle killer and may be planning to rejoin You-Know-Who. . . . But of course, you don’t even know who You-Know-Who is!” He had gazed hopelessly at the Prime Minister for a moment, then said, “Well, sit down, sit down, I’d better fill you in. . . . Have a whiskey . . ."
"So you think that . . .” He had squinted down at the name in his left hand. “Lord Vol —"
"He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!"
"I’m sorry. . . . You think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is still alive, then?"
"Well, Dumbledore says he is,” said Fudge, as he had fastened his pin-striped cloak under his chin, “but we’ve never found him. If you ask me, he’s not dangerous unless he’s got support, so it’s Black we ought to be worrying about. You’ll put out that warning, then? Excellent. Well, I hope we don’t see each other again, Prime Minister! Good night."
"involved,"
"Oh, and I almost forgot,” Fudge had added. “We’re importing three foreign dragons and a sphinx for the Triwizard Tournament, quite routine, but the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures tells me that it’s down in the rule book that we have to notify you if we’re bringing highly dangerous creatures into the country."
"I — what — dragons?"
"Yes, three,” said Fudge. “And a sphinx. Well, good day to you."
"A mass breakout?"
"No need to worry, no need to worry!” shouted Fudge, already with one foot in the flames. “We’ll have them rounded up in no time — just thought you ought to know!"
"Now, wait just one moment!"
"How should I know what’s going on in the — er — Wizarding community?” snapped the Prime Minister now. “I have a country to run and quite enough concerns at the moment without —"
"We have the same concerns,” Fudge interrupted. “The Brockdale Bridge didn’t wear out. That wasn’t really a hurricane. Those murders were not the work of Muggles. And Herbert Chorley’s family would be safer without him. We are currently making arrangements to have him transferred to St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. The move should be effected tonight."
"What do you . . . I’m afraid I . . . What?"
"Prime Minister, I am very sorry to have to tell you that he’s back. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back."
"Back? When you say ‘back’ . . . he’s alive? I mean —"
"Yes, alive,” said Fudge. “That is — I don’t know — is a man alive if he can’t be killed? I don’t really understand it, and Dumbledore won’t explain properly — but anyway, he’s certainly got a body and is walking and talking and killing, so I suppose, for the purposes of our discussion, yes, he’s alive."
"Is Serious Black with — er — He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"
"Black? Black?” said Fudge distractedly, turning his bowler rapidly in his fingers. “Sirius Black, you mean? Merlin’s beard, no. Black’s dead. Turns out we were — er — mistaken about Black. He was innocent after all. And he wasn’t in league with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named either. I mean,” he added defensively, spinning the bowler hat still faster, “all the evidence pointed — we had more than fifty eyewitnesses — but anyway, as I say, he’s dead. Murdered, as a matter of fact. On Ministry of Magic premises. There’s going to be an inquiry, actually. . . ."
"But Black’s by-the-by now. The point is, we’re at war, Prime Minister, and steps must be taken."
"At war?” repeated the Prime Minister nervously. “Surely that’s a little bit of an overstatement?"
"He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has now been joined by those of his followers who broke out of Azkaban in January,” said Fudge, speaking more and more rapidly and twirling his bowler so fast that it was a lime-green blur. “Since they have moved into the open, they have been wreaking havoc. The Brockdale Bridge — he did it, Prime Minister, he threatened a mass Muggle killing unless I stood aside for him and —"
"Good grief, so it’s your fault those people were killed and I’m having to answer questions about rusted rigging and corroded expansion joints and I don’t know what else!"
"My fault!” said Fudge, coloring up. “Are you saying you would have caved in to blackmail like that?"
"Maybe not,” said the Prime Minister, standing up and striding about the room, “but I would have put all my efforts into catching the blackmailer before he committed any such atrocity!"
"Do you really think I wasn’t already making every effort?” demanded Fudge heatedly. “Every Auror in the Ministry was — and is — trying to find him and round up his followers, but we happen to be talking about one of the most powerful wizards of all time, a wizard who has eluded capture for almost three decades!"
"So I suppose you’re going to tell me he caused the hurricane in the West Country too?"
"That was no hurricane,"
"Excuse me!” barked the Prime Minister, now positively stamping up and down. “Trees uprooted, roofs ripped off, lampposts bent, horrible injuries —"
"It was the Death Eaters,” said Fudge. “He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named’s followers. And . . . and we suspect giant involvement."
"What involvement?"
"He used giants last time, when he wanted to go for the grand effect,” he said. “The Office of Misinformation has been working around the clock, we’ve had teams of Obliviators out trying to modify the memories of all the Muggles who saw what really happened, we’ve got most of the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures running around Somerset, but we can’t find the giant — it’s been a disaster."
"You don’t say!"
"I won’t deny that morale is pretty low at the Ministry,” said Fudge. “What with all that, and then losing Amelia Bones."
"Losing who?"
"Amelia Bones. Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. We think He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named may have murdered her in person, because she was a very gifted witch and — and all the evidence was that she put up a real fight."
"But that murder was in the newspapers,” said the Prime Minister, momentarily diverted from his anger. “Our newspapers. Amelia Bones . . . it just said she was a middle-aged woman who lived alone. It was a — a nasty killing, wasn’t it? It’s had rather a lot of publicity. The police are baffled, you see."
"Well, of course they are,” he said. “Killed in a room that was locked from the inside, wasn’t she? We, on the other hand, know exactly who did it, not that that gets us any further toward catching him. And then there was Emmeline Vance, maybe you didn’t hear about that one —"
"Oh yes I did!” said the Prime Minister. “It happened just around the corner from here, as a matter of fact. The papers had a field day with it, ‘breakdown of law and order in the Prime Minister’s backyard —’"
"And as if all that wasn’t enough,” said Fudge, barely listening to the Prime Minister, “we’ve got dementors swarming all over the place, attacking people left, right, and center. . . ."
"I thought dementors guard the prisoners in Azkaban,"
"They did,” said Fudge wearily. “But not anymore. They’ve deserted the prison and joined He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. I won’t pretend that wasn’t a blow."
"But,” said the Prime Minister, with a sense of dawning horror, “didn’t you tell me they’re the creatures that drain hope and happiness out of people?"
"That’s right. And they’re breeding. That’s what’s causing all this mist."
"Now see here, Fudge — you’ve got to do something! It’s your responsibility as Minister of Magic!"
"My dear Prime Minister, you can’t honestly think I’m still Minister of Magic after all this? I was sacked three days ago! The whole Wizarding community has been screaming for my resignation for a fortnight. I’ve never known them so united in my whole term of office!"
"I’m very sorry,” he said finally. “If there’s anything I can do?"
"It’s very kind of you, Prime Minister, but there is nothing. I was sent here tonight to bring you up to date on recent events and to introduce you to my successor. I rather thought he’d be here by now, but of course, he’s very busy at the moment, with so much going on."
"He’ll be here in a moment, he’s just finishing a letter to Dumbledore."
"I wish him luck,” said Fudge, sounding bitter for the first time. “I’ve been writing to Dumbledore twice a day for the past fortnight, but he won’t budge. If he’d just been prepared to persuade the boy, I might still be . . . Well, maybe Scrimgeour will have more success."
"To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Requesting a meeting. Urgent. Kindly respond immediately. Rufus Scrimgeour, Minister of Magic."
"Yes, yes, fine,"
"How do you do?"
"Fudge told you everything?"
"Er — yes,” said the Prime Minister. “And if you don’t mind, I’d rather that door remained unlocked."
"I’d rather not be interrupted,” said Scrimgeour shortly, “or watched,” he added, pointing his wand at the windows, so that the curtains swept across them. “Right, well, I’m a busy man, so let’s get down to business. First of all, we need to discuss your security."
"I am perfectly happy with the security I’ve already got, thank you very —"
"Well, we’re not,” Scrimgeour cut in. “It’ll be a poor lookout for the Muggles if their Prime Minister gets put under the Imperius Curse. The new secretary in your outer office —"
"I’m not getting rid of Kingsley Shacklebolt, if that’s what you’re suggesting!” said the Prime Minister hotly. “He’s highly efficient, gets through twice the work the rest of them —"
"That’s because he’s a wizard,” said Scrimgeour, without a flicker of a smile. “A highly trained Auror, who has been assigned to you for your protection."
"Now, wait a moment!” declared the Prime Minister. “You can’t just put your people into my office, I decide who works for me —"
"I thought you were happy with Shacklebolt?"
"I am — that’s to say, I was —"
"Then there’s no problem, is there?"
"I . . . well, as long as Shacklebolt’s work continues to be . . . er . . . excellent,"
"Now, about Herbert Chorley, your Junior Minister,” he continued. “The one who has been entertaining the public by impersonating a duck."
"What about him?"
"He has clearly reacted to a poorly performed Imperius Curse,” said Scrimgeour. “It’s addled his brains, but he could still be dangerous."
"He’s only quacking!” said the Prime Minister weakly. “Surely a bit of a rest . . . Maybe go easy on the drink . . ."
"A team of Healers from St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries are examining him as we speak. So far he has attempted to strangle three of them,” said Scrimgeour. “I think it best that we remove him from Muggle society for a while."
"I . . . well . . . He’ll be all right, won’t he?"
"Well, that’s really all I had to say. I will keep you posted of developments, Prime Minister — or, at least, I shall probably be too busy to come personally, in which case I shall send Fudge here. He has consented to stay on in an advisory capacity."
"But for heaven’s sake — you’re wizards! You can do magic! Surely you can sort out — well — anything!"
"The trouble is, the other side can do magic too, Prime Minister."
"Wait!"
"Just a fox,” said a woman’s voice dismissively from under the hood. “I thought perhaps an Auror — Cissy, wait!"
"Cissy — Narcissa — listen to me —"
"Go back, Bella!"
"You must listen to me!"
"I’ve listened already. I’ve made my decision. Leave me alone!"
"He lives here?” asked Bella in a voice of contempt. “Here? In this Muggle dunghill? We must be the first of our kind ever to set foot —"
"Cissy, wait!"
"Cissy, you must not do this, you can’t trust him —"
"The Dark Lord trusts him, doesn’t he?"
"The Dark Lord is . . . I believe . . . mistaken,” Bella panted, and her eyes gleamed momentarily under her hood as she looked around to check that they were indeed alone. “In any case, we were told not to speak of the plan to anyone. This is a betrayal of the Dark Lord’s —"
"Let go, Bella!"
"Cissy, your own sister? You wouldn’t —"
"There is nothing I wouldn’t do anymore!"
"Narcissa!"
"Narcissa!” said the man, opening the door a little wider, so that the light fell upon her and her sister too. “What a pleasant surprise!"
"Severus,” she said in a strained whisper. “May I speak to you? It’s urgent."
"But of course."
"Snape,"
"Bellatrix,"
"So, what can I do for you?"
"We . . . we are alone, aren’t we?"
"Yes, of course. Well, Wormtail’s here, but we’re not counting vermin, are we?"
"As you have clearly realized, Wormtail, we have guests,"
"Narcissa!” he said, in a squeaky voice. “And Bellatrix! How charming —"
"Wormtail will get us drinks, if you’d like them,” said Snape. “And then he will return to his bedroom."
"I am not your servant!"
"Really? I was under the impression that the Dark Lord placed you here to assist me."
"To assist, yes — but not to make you drinks and — and clean your house!"
"I had no idea, Wormtail, that you were craving more dangerous assignments,” said Snape silkily. “This can be easily arranged: I shall speak to the Dark Lord —"
"I can speak to him myself if I want to!"
"Of course you can,” said Snape, sneering. “But in the meantime, bring us drinks. Some of the elf-made wine will do."
"The Dark Lord,"
"Severus, I’m sorry to come here like this, but I had to see you. I think you are the only one who can help me —"
"My apologies,” said Snape. “He has lately taken to listening at doors, I don’t know what he means by it. . . . You were saying, Narcissa?"
"Severus, I know I ought not to be here, I have been told to say nothing to anyone, but —"
"Then you ought to hold your tongue!” snarled Bellatrix. “Particularly in present company!"
"‘Present company’?” repeated Snape sardonically. “And what am I to understand by that, Bellatrix?"
"That I don’t trust you, Snape, as you very well know!"
"Narcissa, I think we ought to hear what Bellatrix is bursting to say; it will save tedious interruptions. Well, continue, Bellatrix,” said Snape. “Why is it that you do not trust me?"
"A hundred reasons!” she said loudly, striding out from behind the sofa to slam her glass upon the table. “Where to start! Where were you when the Dark Lord fell? Why did you never make any attempt to find him when he vanished? What have you been doing all these years that you’ve lived in Dumbledore’s pocket? Why did you stop the Dark Lord procuring the Sorcerer’s Stone? Why did you not return at once when the Dark Lord was reborn? Where were you a few weeks ago when we battled to retrieve the prophecy for the Dark Lord? And why, Snape, is Harry Potter still alive, when you have had him at your mercy for five years?"
"Before I answer you — oh yes, Bellatrix, I am going to answer! You can carry my words back to the others who whisper behind my back, and carry false tales of my treachery to the Dark Lord! Before I answer you, I say, let me ask a question in turn. Do you really think that the Dark Lord has not asked me each and every one of those questions? And do you really think that, had I not been able to give satisfactory answers, I would be sitting here talking to you?"
"I know he believes you, but . . ."
"You think he is mistaken? Or that I have somehow hoodwinked him? Fooled the Dark Lord, the greatest wizard, the most accomplished Legilimens the world has ever seen?"
"You ask where I was when the Dark Lord fell. I was where he had ordered me to be, at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, because he wished me to spy upon Albus Dumbledore. You know, I presume, that it was on the Dark Lord’s orders that I took up the post?"
"You ask why I did not attempt to find him when he vanished. For the same reason that Avery, Yaxley, the Carrows, Greyback, Lucius” — he inclined his head slightly to Narcissa — “and many others did not attempt to find him. I believed him finished. I am not proud of it, I was wrong, but there it is. . . . If he had not forgiven we who lost faith at that time, he would have very few followers left."
"He’d have me!” said Bellatrix passionately. “I, who spent many years in Azkaban for him!"
"Yes, indeed, most admirable,” said Snape in a bored voice. “Of course, you weren’t a lot of use to him in prison, but the gesture was undoubtedly fine —"
"Gesture!” she shrieked; in her fury she looked slightly mad. “While I endured the dementors, you remained at Hogwarts, comfortably playing Dumbledore’s pet!"
"Not quite,” said Snape calmly. “He wouldn’t give me the Defense Against the Dark Arts job, you know. Seemed to think it might, ah, bring about a relapse . . . tempt me into my old ways."
"This was your sacrifice for the Dark Lord, not to teach your favorite subject?” she jeered. “Why did you stay there all that time, Snape? Still spying on Dumbledore for a master you believed dead?"
"Hardly,” said Snape, “although the Dark Lord is pleased that I never deserted my post: I had sixteen years of information on Dumbledore to give him when he returned, a rather more useful welcome-back present than endless reminiscences of how unpleasant Azkaban is. . . ."
"But you stayed —"
"Yes, Bellatrix, I stayed,"
"I think you next wanted to know,” he pressed on, a little more loudly, for Bellatrix showed every sign of interrupting, “why I stood between the Dark Lord and the Sorcerer’s Stone. That is easily answered. He did not know whether he could trust me. He thought, like you, that I had turned from faithful Death Eater to Dumbledore’s stooge. He was in a pitiable condition, very weak, sharing the body of a mediocre wizard. He did not dare reveal himself to a former ally if that ally might turn him over to Dumbledore or the Ministry. I deeply regret that he did not trust me. He would have returned to power three years sooner. As it was, I saw only greedy and unworthy Quirrell attempting to steal the stone and, I admit, I did all I could to thwart him."
"But you didn’t return when he came back, you didn’t fly back to him at once when you felt the Dark Mark burn —"
"Correct. I returned two hours later. I returned on Dumbledore’s orders."
"On Dumbledore’s — ?"
"Think!"
"The Dark Lord’s initial displeasure at my lateness vanished entirely, I assure you, when I explained that I remained faithful, although Dumbledore thought I was his man. Yes, the Dark Lord thought that I had left him forever, but he was wrong."
"But what use have you been?” sneered Bellatrix. “What useful information have we had from you?"
"My information has been conveyed directly to the Dark Lord,” said Snape. “If he chooses not to share it with you —"
"He shares everything with me!” said Bellatrix, firing up at once. “He calls me his most loyal, his most faithful —"
"Does he?” said Snape, his voice delicately inflected to suggest his disbelief. “Does he still, after the fiasco at the Ministry?"
"That was not my fault!” said Bellatrix, flushing. “The Dark Lord has, in the past, entrusted me with his most precious — if Lucius hadn’t —"
"Don’t you dare — don’t you dare blame my husband!"
"There is no point apportioning blame,” said Snape smoothly. “What is done, is done."
"But not by you!” said Bellatrix furiously. “No, you were once again absent while the rest of us ran dangers, were you not, Snape?"
"My orders were to remain behind,” said Snape. “Perhaps you disagree with the Dark Lord, perhaps you think that Dumbledore would not have noticed if I had joined forces with the Death Eaters to fight the Order of the Phoenix? And — forgive me — you speak of dangers . . . you were facing six teenagers, were you not?"
"They were joined, as you very well know, by half of the Order before long!” snarled Bellatrix. “And, while we are on the subject of the Order, you still claim you cannot reveal the whereabouts of their headquarters, don’t you?"
"I am not the Secret-Keeper; I cannot speak the name of the place. You understand how the enchantment works, I think? The Dark Lord is satisfied with the information I have passed him on the Order. It led, as perhaps you have guessed, to the recent capture and murder of Emmeline Vance, and it certainly helped dispose of Sirius Black, though I give you full credit for finishing him off."
"You are avoiding my last question, Snape. Harry Potter. You could have killed him at any point in the past five years. You have not done it. Why?"
"Have you discussed this matter with the Dark Lord?"
"He . . . lately, we . . . I am asking you, Snape!"
"If I had murdered Harry Potter, the Dark Lord could not have used his blood to regenerate, making him invincible —"
"You claim you foresaw his use of the boy!"
"I do not claim it; I had no idea of his plans; I have already confessed that I thought the Dark Lord dead. I am merely trying to explain why the Dark Lord is not sorry that Potter survived, at least until a year ago. . . ."
"But why did you keep him alive?"
"Of course, it became apparent to me very quickly that he had no extraordinary talent at all. He has fought his way out of a number of tight corners by a simple combination of sheer luck and more talented friends. He is mediocre to the last degree, though as obnoxious and self-satisfied as was his father before him. I have done my utmost to have him thrown out of Hogwarts, where I believe he scarcely belongs, but kill him, or allow him to be killed in front of me? I would have been a fool to risk it with Dumbledore close at hand."
"And through all this we are supposed to believe Dumbledore has never suspected you?” asked Bellatrix. “He has no idea of your true allegiance, he trusts you implicitly still?"
"I have played my part well,” said Snape. “And you overlook Dumbledore’s greatest weakness: He has to believe the best of people. I spun him a tale of deepest remorse when I joined his staff, fresh from my Death Eater days, and he embraced me with open arms — though, as I say, never allowing me nearer the Dark Arts than he could help. Dumbledore has been a great wizard — oh yes, he has,” (for Bellatrix had made a scathing noise), “the Dark Lord acknowledges it. I am pleased to say, however, that Dumbledore is growing old. The duel with the Dark Lord last month shook him. He has since sustained a serious injury because his reactions are slower than they once were. But through all these years, he has never stopped trusting Severus Snape, and therein lies my great value to the Dark Lord."
"Now . . . you came to ask me for help, Narcissa?"
"Yes, Severus. I — I think you are the only one who can help me, I have nowhere else to turn. Lucius is in jail and . . ."
"The Dark Lord has forbidden me to speak of it,” Narcissa continued, her eyes still closed. “He wishes none to know of the plan. It is . . . very secret. But —"
"If he has forbidden it, you ought not to speak,” said Snape at once. “The Dark Lord’s word is law."
"There!” she said triumphantly to her sister. “Even Snape says so: You were told not to talk, so hold your silence!"
"It so happens that I know of the plan,” he said in a low voice. “I am one of the few the Dark Lord has told. Nevertheless, had I not been in on the secret, Narcissa, you would have been guilty of great treachery to the Dark Lord."
"I thought you must know about it!” said Narcissa, breathing more freely. “He trusts you so, Severus. . . ."
"You know about the plan?” said Bellatrix, her fleeting expression of satisfaction replaced by a look of outrage. “You know?"
"Certainly,” said Snape. “But what help do you require, Narcissa? If you are imagining I can persuade the Dark Lord to change his mind, I am afraid there is no hope, none at all."
"Severus,” she whispered, tears sliding down her pale cheeks. “My son . . . my only son . . ."
"Draco should be proud,” said Bellatrix indifferently. “The Dark Lord is granting him a great honor. And I will say this for Draco: He isn’t shrinking away from his duty, he seems glad of a chance to prove himself, excited at the prospect —"
"That’s because he is sixteen and has no idea what lies in store! Why, Severus? Why my son? It is too dangerous! This is vengeance for Lucius’s mistake, I know it!"
"That’s why he’s chosen Draco, isn’t it?” she persisted. “To punish Lucius?"
"If Draco succeeds,” said Snape, still looking away from her, “he will be honored above all others."
"But he won’t succeed!” sobbed Narcissa. “How can he, when the Dark Lord himself — ?"
"I only meant . . . that nobody has yet succeeded. . . . Severus . . . please . . . You are, you have always been, Draco’s favorite teacher. . . . You are Lucius’s old friend. . . . I beg you. . . . You are the Dark Lord’s favorite, his most trusted advisor. . . . Will you speak to him, persuade him — ?"
"The Dark Lord will not be persuaded, and I am not stupid enough to attempt it,” said Snape flatly. “I cannot pretend that the Dark Lord is not angry with Lucius. Lucius was supposed to be in charge. He got himself captured, along with how many others, and failed to retrieve the prophecy into the bargain. Yes, the Dark Lord is angry, Narcissa, very angry indeed."
"Then I am right, he has chosen Draco in revenge!” choked Narcissa. “He does not mean him to succeed, he wants him to be killed trying!"
"You could do it. You could do it instead of Draco, Severus. You would succeed, of course you would, and he would reward you beyond all of us —"
"He intends me to do it in the end, I think. But he is determined that Draco should try first. You see, in the unlikely event that Draco succeeds, I shall be able to remain at Hogwarts a little longer, fulfilling my useful role as spy."
"In other words, it doesn’t matter to him if Draco is killed!"
"The Dark Lord is very angry,” repeated Snape quietly. “He failed to hear the prophecy. You know as well as I do, Narcissa, that he does not forgive easily."
"My only son . . . my only son . . ."
"You should be proud!” said Bellatrix ruthlessly. “If I had sons, I would be glad to give them up to the service of the Dark Lord!"
"Narcissa, that’s enough. Drink this. Listen to me."
"It might be possible . . . for me to help Draco."
"Severus — oh, Severus — you would help him? Would you look after him, see he comes to no harm?"
"I can try."
"If you are there to protect him . . . Severus, will you swear it? Will you make the Unbreakable Vow?"
"The Unbreakable Vow?"
"Aren’t you listening, Narcissa? Oh, he’ll try, I’m sure. . . . The usual empty words, the usual slithering out of action . . . oh, on the Dark Lord’s orders, of course!"
"Certainly, Narcissa, I shall make the Unbreakable Vow,” he said quietly. “Perhaps your sister will consent to be our Bonder."
"You will need your wand, Bellatrix,"
"And you will need to move a little closer,"
"Will you, Severus, watch over my son, Draco, as he attempts to fulfill the Dark Lord’s wishes?"
"I will,"
"And will you, to the best of your ability, protect him from harm?"
"I will,"
"And, should it prove necessary . . . if it seems Draco will fail . . .” whispered Narcissa (Snape’s hand twitched within hers, but he did not draw away), “will you carry out the deed that the Dark Lord has ordered Draco to perform?"
"I will,"
"We’re not allowed to talk about it, don’t ask me anything,"
"the Chosen One,"
"For obvious reasons, the Ministry will not be going into detail about its stringent new security plans,"
"My grandson, Neville — a good friend of Harry Potter’s, incidentally, who fought the Death Eaters alongside him at the Ministry in June and —"
"yes"
"Who the blazes is calling at this time of night?"
"Good evening. You must be Mr. Dursley. I daresay Harry has told you I would be coming for him?"
"Judging by your look of stunned disbelief, Harry did not warn you that I was coming,” said Dumbledore pleasantly. “However, let us assume that you have invited me warmly into your house. It is unwise to linger overlong on doorsteps in these troubled times."
"It is a long time since my last visit,” said Dumbledore, peering down his crooked nose at Uncle Vernon. “I must say, your agapanthus are flourishing."
"Ah, good evening Harry,” said Dumbledore, looking up at him through his half-moon glasses with a most satisfied expression. “Excellent, excellent."
"excellent"
"I don’t mean to be rude —"
"— yet, sadly, accidental rudeness occurs alarmingly often,” Dumbledore finished the sentence gravely. “Best to say nothing at all, my dear man. Ah, and this must be Petunia."
"Albus Dumbledore,” said Dumbledore, when Uncle Vernon failed to effect an introduction. “We have corresponded, of course.” Harry thought this an odd way of reminding Aunt Petunia that he had once sent her an exploding letter, but Aunt Petunia did not challenge the term. “And this must be your son, Dudley?"
"Shall we assume that you have invited me into your sitting room?"
"Aren’t — aren’t we leaving, sir?"
"Yes, indeed we are, but there are a few matters we need to discuss first,” said Dumbledore. “And I would prefer not to do so in the open. We shall trespass upon your aunt and uncle’s hospitality only a little longer."
"You will, will you?"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore simply, “I shall."
"We may as well be comfortable,"
"Sir — what happened to your — ?"
"Later, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Please sit down."
"I would assume that you were going to offer me refreshment,” Dumbledore said to Uncle Vernon, “but the evidence so far suggests that that would be optimistic to the point of foolishness."
"Madam Rosmerta’s finest oak-matured mead,"
"Well, Harry,” said Dumbledore, turning toward him, “a difficulty has arisen which I hope you will be able to solve for us. By us, I mean the Order of the Phoenix. But first of all I must tell you that Sirius’s will was discovered a week ago and that he left you everything he owned."
"Oh. Right."
"This is, in the main, fairly straightforward,” Dumbledore went on. “You add a reasonable amount of gold to your account at Gringotts, and you inherit all of Sirius’s personal possessions. The slightly problematic part of the legacy —"
"His godfather’s dead?” said Uncle Vernon loudly from the sofa. Dumbledore and Harry both turned to look at him. The glass of mead was now knocking quite insistently on the side of Vernon’s head; he attempted to beat it away. “He’s dead? His godfather?"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore. He did not ask Harry why he had not confided in the Dursleys. “Our problem,” he continued to Harry, as if there had been no interruption, “is that Sirius also left you number twelve, Grimmauld Place."
"He’s been left a house?"
"You can keep using it as headquarters,” said Harry. “I don’t care. You can have it, I don’t really want it."
"That is generous,” said Dumbledore. “We have, however, vacated the building temporarily."
"Why?"
"Well,” said Dumbledore, ignoring the mutterings of Uncle Vernon, who was now being rapped smartly over the head by the persistent glass of mead, “Black family tradition decreed that the house was handed down the direct line, to the next male with the name of ‘Black.’ Sirius was the very last of the line as his younger brother, Regulus, predeceased him and both were childless. While his will makes it perfectly plain that he wants you to have the house, it is nevertheless possible that some spell or enchantment has been set upon the place to ensure that it cannot be owned by anyone other than a pureblood."
"I bet there has,"
"Quite,” said Dumbledore. “And if such an enchantment exists, then the ownership of the house is most likely to pass to the eldest of Sirius’s living relatives, which would mean his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange."
"No,"
"Well, obviously we would prefer that she didn’t get it either,” said Dumbledore calmly. “The situation is fraught with complications. We do not know whether the enchantments we ourselves have placed upon it, for example, making it Unplottable, will hold now that ownership has passed from Sirius’s hands. It might be that Bellatrix will arrive on the doorstep at any moment. Naturally we had to move out until such time as we have clarified the position."
"But how are you going to find out if I’m allowed to own it?"
"Fortunately,” said Dumbledore, “there is a simple test."
"Will you get these ruddy things off us?"
"Oh, I’m so sorry,” said Dumbledore politely, and he raised his wand again. All three glasses vanished. “But it would have been better manners to drink it, you know."
"You see,” Dumbledore said, turning back to Harry and again speaking as though Uncle Vernon had not uttered, “if you have indeed inherited the house, you have also inherited —"
"What the hell is that?"
"Kreacher,"
"Kreacher won’t, Kreacher won’t, Kreacher won’t!” croaked the house-elf, quite as loudly as Uncle Vernon, stamping his long, gnarled feet and pulling his ears. “Kreacher belongs to Miss Bellatrix, oh yes, Kreacher belongs to the Blacks, Kreacher wants his new mistress, Kreacher won’t go to the Potter brat, Kreacher won’t, won’t, won’t —"
"As you can see, Harry,” said Dumbledore loudly, over Kreacher’s continued croaks of “won’t, won’t, won’t,” “Kreacher is showing a certain reluctance to pass into your ownership."
"I don’t care,” said Harry again, looking with disgust at the writhing, stamping house-elf. “I don’t want him."
"Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t —"
"You would prefer him to pass into the ownership of Bellatrix Lestrange? Bearing in mind that he has lived at the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix for the past year?"
"Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t —"
"Give him an order,” said Dumbledore. “If he has passed into your ownership, he will have to obey. If not, then we shall have to think of some other means of keeping him from his rightful mistress."
"Won’t, won’t, won’t, WON’T!"
"Kreacher, shut up!"
"Well, that simplifies matters,” said Dumbledore cheerfully. “It seems that Sirius knew what he was doing. You are the rightful owner of number twelve, Grimmauld Place and of Kreacher."
"Do I — do I have to keep him with me?"
"Not if you don’t want to,” said Dumbledore. “If I might make a suggestion, you could send him to Hogwarts to work in the kitchen there. In that way, the other house-elves could keep an eye on him."
"Yeah,” said Harry in relief, “yeah, I’ll do that. Er — Kreacher — I want you to go to Hogwarts and work in the kitchens there with the other house-elves."
"Good,” said Dumbledore. “There is also the matter of the hippogriff, Buckbeak. Hagrid has been looking after him since Sirius died, but Buckbeak is yours now, so if you would prefer to make different arrangements —"
"No,” said Harry at once, “he can stay with Hagrid. I think Buckbeak would prefer that."
"Hagrid will be delighted,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “He was thrilled to see Buckbeak again. Incidentally, we have decided, in the interests of Buckbeak’s safety, to rechristen him ‘Witherwings’ for the time being, though I doubt that the Ministry would ever guess he is the hippogriff they once sentenced to death. Now, Harry, is your trunk packed?"
"Erm . . ."
"Doubtful that I would turn up?"
"I’ll just go and — er — finish off,"
"Professor — I’m ready now."
"Good,” said Dumbledore. “Just one last thing, then."
"As you will no doubt be aware, Harry comes of age in a year’s time —"
"No,"
"I’m sorry?"
"No, he doesn’t. He’s a month younger than Dudley, and Dudders doesn’t turn eighteen until the year after next."
"Ah,” said Dumbledore pleasantly, “but in the Wizarding world, we come of age at seventeen."
"Preposterous,"
"Now, as you already know, the wizard called Lord Voldemort has returned to this country. The Wizarding community is currently in a state of open warfare. Harry, whom Lord Voldemort has already attempted to kill on a number of occasions, is in even greater danger now than the day when I left him upon your doorstep fifteen years ago, with a letter explaining about his parents’ murder and expressing the hope that you would care for him as though he were your own."
"You did not do as I asked. You have never treated Harry as a son. He has known nothing but neglect and often cruelty at your hands. The best that can be said is that he has at least escaped the appalling damage you have inflicted upon the unfortunate boy sitting between you."
"Us — mistreat Dudders? What d’you — ?"
"The magic I evoked fifteen years ago means that Harry has powerful protection while he can still call this house ‘home.’ However miserable he has been here, however unwelcome, however badly treated, you have at least, grudgingly, allowed him houseroom. This magic will cease to operate the moment that Harry turns seventeen; in other words, at the moment he becomes a man. I ask only this: that you allow Harry to return, once more, to this house, before his seventeenth birthday, which will ensure that the protection continues until that time."
"Well, Harry . . . time for us to be off,” said Dumbledore at last, standing up and straightening his long black cloak. “Until we meet again,"
"Bye,"
"We do not want to be encumbered by these just now,” he said, pulling out his wand again. “I shall send them to the Burrow to await us there. However, I would like you to bring your Invisibility Cloak . . . just in case."
"And now, Harry, let us step out into the night and pursue that flighty temptress, adventure."
"Keep your wand at the ready, Harry,"
"But I thought I’m not allowed to use magic outside school, sir?"
"If there is an attack,” said Dumbledore, “I give you permission to use any counterjinx or curse that might occur to you. However, I do not think you need worry about being attacked tonight."
"Why not, sir?"
"You are with me,” said Dumbledore simply. “This will do, Harry."
"You have not, of course, passed your Apparition Test,"
"No,” said Harry. “I thought you had to be seventeen?"
"You do,” said Dumbledore. “So you will need to hold on to my arm very tightly. My left, if you don’t mind — as you have noticed, my wand arm is a little fragile at the moment."
"Very good,” said Dumbledore. “Well, here we go."
"Are you all right?” asked Dumbledore, looking down at him solicitously. “The sensation does take some getting used to."
"I’m fine,” said Harry, rubbing his ears, which felt as though they had left Privet Drive rather reluctantly. “But I think I might prefer brooms. . . ."
"This way."
"So tell me, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Your scar . . . has it been hurting at all?"
"No,” he said, “and I’ve been wondering about that. I thought it would be burning all the time now Voldemort’s getting so powerful again."
"I, on the other hand, thought otherwise,” said Dumbledore. “Lord Voldemort has finally realized the dangerous access to his thoughts and feelings you have been enjoying. It appears that he is now employing Occlumency against you."
"Well, I’m not complaining,"
"Professor?"
"Harry?"
"Er — where exactly are we?"
"This, Harry, is the charming village of Budleigh Babberton."
"And what are we doing here?"
"Ah yes, of course, I haven’t told you,” said Dumbledore. “Well, I have lost count of the number of times I have said this in recent years, but we are, once again, one member of staff short. We are here to persuade an old colleague of mine to come out of retirement and return to Hogwarts."
"How can I help with that, sir?"
"Oh, I think we’ll find a use for you,” said Dumbledore vaguely. “Left here, Harry."
"Professor, why couldn’t we just Apparate directly into your old colleague’s house?"
"Because it would be quite as rude as kicking down the front door,” said Dumbledore. “Courtesy dictates that we offer fellow wizards the opportunity of denying us entry. In any case, most Wizarding dwellings are magically protected from unwanted Apparators. At Hogwarts, for instance —"
"— you can’t Apparate anywhere inside the buildings or grounds,” said Harry quickly. “Hermione Granger told me."
"And she is quite right. We turn left again."
"Sir, I saw in the Daily Prophet that Fudge has been sacked. . . ."
"Correct,” said Dumbledore, now turning up a steep side street. “He has been replaced, as I am sure you also saw, by Rufus Scrimgeour, who used to be Head of the Auror office."
"Is he . . . Do you think he’s good?"
"An interesting question,” said Dumbledore. “He is able, certainly. A more decisive and forceful personality than Cornelius."
"Yes, but I meant —"
"I know what you meant. Rufus is a man of action and, having fought Dark wizards for most of his working life, does not underestimate Lord Voldemort."
"And . . . sir . . . I saw about Madam Bones."
"Yes,” said Dumbledore quietly. “A terrible loss. She was a great witch. Just up here, I think — ouch."
"Professor, what happened to your — ?"
"I have no time to explain now,” said Dumbledore. “It is a thrilling tale, I wish to do it justice."
"Sir — I got a Ministry of Magic leaflet by owl, about security measures we should all take against the Death Eaters. . . ."
"Yes, I received one myself,” said Dumbledore, still smiling. “Did you find it useful?"
"Not really."
"No, I thought not. You have not asked me, for instance, what is my favorite flavor of jam, to check that I am indeed Professor Dumbledore and not an impostor."
"I didn’t . . ."
"For future reference, Harry, it is raspberry . . . although of course, if I were a Death Eater, I would have been sure to research my own jam preferences before impersonating myself."
"Er . . . right,” said Harry. “Well, on that leaflet, it said something about Inferi. What exactly are they? The leaflet wasn’t very clear."
"They are corpses,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Dead bodies that have been bewitched to do a Dark wizard’s bidding. Inferi have not been seen for a long time, however, not since Voldemort was last powerful. . . . He killed enough people to make an army of them, of course. This is the place, Harry, just here. . . ."
"Oh dear. Oh dear, dear, dear."
"Wand out and follow me, Harry,"
"Lumos."
"Not pretty, is it?” he said heavily. “Yes, something horrible has happened here."
"Maybe there was a fight and — and they dragged him off, Professor?"
"I don’t think so,"
"You mean he’s — ?"
"Still here somewhere? Yes."
"Ouch!"
"Good evening, Horace,"
"There was no need to stick the wand in that hard,” he said gruffly, clambering to his feet. “It hurt."
"What gave it away?"
"My dear Horace,” said Dumbledore, looking amused, “if the Death Eaters really had come to call, the Dark Mark would have been set over the house."
"The Dark Mark,” he muttered. “Knew there was something . . . ah well. Wouldn’t have had time anyway, I’d only just put the finishing touches to my upholstery when you entered the room."
"Would you like my assistance clearing up?"
"Please,"
"What kind of blood was that, incidentally?"
"On the walls? Dragon,"
"Yes, dragon,” repeated the wizard conversationally. “My last bottle, and prices are sky-high at the moment. Still, it might be reusable."
"Hmm. Bit dusty."
"Oho,” he said, his large round eyes flying to Harry’s forehead and the lightning-shaped scar it bore. “Oho!"
"This,” said Dumbledore, moving forward to make the introduction, “is Harry Potter. Harry, this is an old friend and colleague of mine, Horace Slughorn."
"So that’s how you thought you’d persuade me, is it? Well, the answer’s no, Albus."
"I suppose we can have a drink, at least?” asked Dumbledore. “For old time’s sake?"
"All right then, one drink,"
"Hmpf,” he said, looking away quickly as though frightened of hurting his eyes. “Here —"
"Well, how have you been keeping, Horace?"
"Not so well,” said Slughorn at once. “Weak chest. Wheezy. Rheumatism too. Can’t move like I used to. Well, that’s to be expected. Old age. Fatigue."
"And yet you must have moved fairly quickly to prepare such a welcome for us at such short notice,” said Dumbledore. “You can’t have had more than three minutes’ warning?"
"Two. Didn’t hear my Intruder Charm go off, I was taking a bath. Still,” he added sternly, seeming to pull himself back together again, “the fact remains that I’m an old man, Albus. A tired old man who’s earned the right to a quiet life and a few creature comforts."
"You’re not yet as old as I am, Horace,"
"Well, maybe you ought to think about retirement yourself,” said Slughorn bluntly. His pale gooseberry eyes had found Dumbledore’s injured hand. “Reactions not what they were, I see."
"You’re quite right,” said Dumbledore serenely, shaking back his sleeve to reveal the tips of those burned and blackened fingers; the sight of them made the back of Harry’s neck prickle unpleasantly. “I am undoubtedly slower than I was. But on the other hand . . ."
"So, all these precautions against intruders, Horace . . . are they for the Death Eaters’ benefit, or mine?"
"What would the Death Eaters want with a poor broken-down old buffer like me?"
"I imagine that they would want you to turn your considerable talents to coercion, torture, and murder,” said Dumbledore. “Are you really telling me that they haven’t come recruiting yet?"
"I haven’t given them the chance. I’ve been on the move for a year. Never stay in one place more than a week. Move from Muggle house to Muggle house — the owners of this place are on holiday in the Canary Islands — it’s been very pleasant, I’ll be sorry to leave. It’s quite easy once you know how, one simple Freezing Charm on these absurd burglar alarms they use instead of Sneakoscopes and make sure the neighbors don’t spot you bringing in the piano."
"Ingenious,” said Dumbledore. “But it sounds a rather tiring existence for a broken-down old buffer in search of a quiet life. Now, if you were to return to Hogwarts —"
"If you’re going to tell me my life would be more peaceful at that pestilential school, you can save your breath, Albus! I might have been in hiding, but some funny rumors have reached me since Dolores Umbridge left! If that’s how you treat teachers these days —"
"Professor Umbridge ran afoul of our centaur herd,” said Dumbledore. “I think you, Horace, would have known better than to stride into the forest and call a horde of angry centaurs ‘filthy half-breeds.’"
"That’s what she did, did she?” said Slughorn. “Idiotic woman. Never liked her."
"Sorry,” Harry said hastily. “It’s just — I didn’t like her either."
"Are you leaving?"
"No, I was wondering whether I might use your bathroom,"
"Oh,” said Slughorn, clearly disappointed. “Second on the left down the hall."
"Don’t think I don’t know why he’s brought you,"
"You look very like your father."
"Yeah, I’ve been told,"
"Except for your eyes. You’ve got —"
"My mother’s eyes, yeah."
"Hmpf. Yes, well. You shouldn’t have favorites as a teacher, of course, but she was one of mine. Your mother,” Slughorn added, in answer to Harry’s questioning look. “Lily Evans. One of the brightest I ever taught. Vivacious, you know. Charming girl. I used to tell her she ought to have been in my House. Very cheeky answers I used to get back too."
"Which was your House?"
"I was Head of Slytherin,” said Slughorn. “Oh, now,” he went on quickly, seeing the expression on Harry’s face and wagging a stubby finger at him, “don’t go holding that against me! You’ll be Gryffindor like her, I suppose? Yes, it usually goes in families. Not always, though. Ever heard of Sirius Black? You must have done — been in the papers for the last couple of years — died a few weeks ago —"
"Well, anyway, he was a big pal of your father’s at school. The whole Black family had been in my House, but Sirius ended up in Gryffindor! Shame — he was a talented boy. I got his brother, Regulus, when he came along, but I’d have liked the set."
"Your mother was Muggle-born, of course. Couldn’t believe it when I found out. Thought she must have been pure-blood, she was so good."
"One of my best friends is Muggle-born,” said Harry, “and she’s the best in our year."
"Funny how that sometimes happens, isn’t it?"
"Not really,"
"You mustn’t think I’m prejudiced!” he said. “No, no, no! Haven’t I just said your mother was one of my all-time favorite students? And there was Dirk Cresswell in the year after her too — now Head of the Goblin Liaison Office, of course — another Muggle-born, a very gifted student, and still gives me excellent inside information on the goings-on at Gringotts!"
"All ex-students, all signed. You’ll notice Barnabas Cuffe, editor of the Daily Prophet, he’s always interested to hear my take on the day’s news. And Ambrosius Flume, of Honeydukes — a hamper every birthday, and all because I was able to give him an introduction to Ciceron Harkiss, who gave him his first job! And at the back — you’ll see her if you just crane your neck — that’s Gwenog Jones, who of course captains the Holyhead Harpies. . . . People are always astonished to hear I’m on first-name terms with the Harpies, and free tickets whenever I want them!"
"And all these people know where to find you, to send you stuff?"
"Of course not,” he said, looking down at Harry. “I have been out of touch with everybody for a year."
"Still . . . the prudent wizard keeps his head down in such times. All very well for Dumbledore to talk, but taking up a post at Hogwarts just now would be tantamount to declaring my public allegiance to the Order of the Phoenix! And while I’m sure they’re very admirable and brave and all the rest of it, I don’t personally fancy the mortality rate —"
"You don’t have to join the Order to teach at Hogwarts,” said Harry, who could not quite keep a note of derision out of his voice: It was hard to sympathize with Slughorn’s cosseted existence when he remembered Sirius, crouching in a cave and living on rats. “Most of the teachers aren’t in it, and none of them has ever been killed — well, unless you count Quirrell, and he got what he deserved seeing as he was working with Voldemort."
"I reckon the staff are safer than most people while Dumbledore’s headmaster; he’s supposed to be the only one Voldemort ever feared, isn’t he?"
"Well, yes, it is true that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has never sought a fight with Dumbledore,” he muttered grudgingly. “And I suppose one could argue that as I have not joined the Death Eaters, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named can hardly count me a friend . . . in which case, I might well be safer a little closer to Albus. . . . I cannot pretend that Amelia Bones’s death did not shake me. . . . If she, with all her Ministry contacts and protection . . ."
"Oh, there you are, Albus,” he said. “You’ve been a very long time. Upset stomach?"
"No, I was merely reading the Muggle magazines,” said Dumbledore. “I do love knitting patterns. Well, Harry, we have trespassed upon Horace’s hospitality quite long enough; I think it is time for us to leave."
"You’re leaving?"
"Yes, indeed. I think I know a lost cause when I see one."
"Lost . . . ?"
"Well, I’m sorry you don’t want the job, Horace,” said Dumbledore, raising his uninjured hand in a farewell salute. “Hogwarts would have been glad to see you back again. Our greatly increased security notwithstanding, you will always be welcome to visit, should you wish to."
"Yes . . . well . . . very gracious . . . as I say . . ."
"Good-bye, then."
"Bye,"
"All right, all right, I’ll do it!"
"You will come out of retirement?"
"Yes, yes,” said Slughorn impatiently. “I must be mad, but yes."
"Wonderful,” said Dumbledore, beaming. “Then, Horace, we shall see you on the first of September."
"Yes, I daresay you will,"
"I’ll want a pay rise, Dumbledore!"
"Well done, Harry,"
"I didn’t do anything,"
"Oh yes you did. You showed Horace exactly how much he stands to gain by returning to Hogwarts. Did you like him?"
"Er . . ."
"Horace,” said Dumbledore, relieving Harry of the responsibility to say any of this, “likes his comfort. He also likes the company of the famous, the successful, and the powerful. He enjoys the feeling that he influences these people. He has never wanted to occupy the throne himself; he prefers the backseat — more room to spread out, you see. He used to handpick favorites at Hogwarts, sometimes for their ambition or their brains, sometimes for their charm or their talent, and he had an uncanny knack for choosing those who would go on to become outstanding in their various fields. Horace formed a kind of club of his favorites with himself at the center, making introductions, forging useful contacts between members, and always reaping some kind of benefit in return, whether a free box of his favorite crystalized pineapple or the chance to recommend the next junior member of the Goblin Liaison Office."
"I tell you all this,” Dumbledore continued, “not to turn you against Horace — or, as we must now call him, Professor Slughorn — but to put you on your guard. He will undoubtedly try to collect you, Harry. You would be the jewel of his collection; ‘the Boy Who Lived’ . . . or, as they call you these days, ‘the Chosen One.’"
"This will do, Harry. If you will grasp my arm."
"If you don’t mind, Harry,” said Dumbledore, as they passed through the gate, “I’d like a few words with you before we part. In private. Perhaps in here?"
"I hope you will forgive me for mentioning it, Harry, but I am pleased and a little proud at how well you seem to be coping after everything that happened at the Ministry. Permit me to say that I think Sirius would have been proud of you."
"His godfather’s dead?"
"It was cruel,” said Dumbledore softly, “that you and Sirius had such a short time together. A brutal ending to what should have been a long and happy relationship."
"It’s just hard,” Harry said finally, in a low voice, “to realize he won’t write to me again."
"Sirius represented much to you that you had never known before,” said Dumbledore gently. “Naturally, the loss is devastating. . . ."
"But while I was at the Dursleys’ . . .” interrupted Harry, his voice growing stronger, “I realized I can’t shut myself away or — or crack up. Sirius wouldn’t have wanted that, would he? And anyway, life’s too short. . . . Look at Madam Bones, look at Emmeline Vance. . . . It could be me next, couldn’t it? But if it is,” he said fiercely, now looking straight into Dumbledore’s blue eyes gleaming in the wandlight, “I’ll make sure I take as many Death Eaters with me as I can, and Voldemort too if I can manage it."
"Spoken both like your mother and father’s son and Sirius’s true godson!"
"And now, Harry, on a closely related subject . . . I gather that you have been taking the Daily Prophet over the last two weeks?"
"Yes,"
"Then you will have seen that there have been not so much leaks as floods concerning your adventure in the Hall of Prophecy?"
"Yes,” said Harry again. “And now everyone knows that I’m the one —"
"No, they do not,"
"Now, I think I am correct in saying that you have not told anybody that you know what the prophecy said?"
"No,"
"A wise decision, on the whole,” said Dumbledore. “Although I think you ought to relax it in favor of your friends, Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger. Yes,” he continued, when Harry looked startled, “I think they ought to know. You do them a disservice by not confiding something this important to them."
"I didn’t want —"
"— to worry or frighten them?” said Dumbledore, surveying Harry over the top of his half-moon spectacles. “Or perhaps, to confess that you yourself are worried and frightened? You need your friends, Harry. As you so rightly said, Sirius would not have wanted you to shut yourself away."
"On a different, though related, subject, it is my wish that you take private lessons with me this year."
"Private — with you?"
"Yes. I think it is time that I took a greater hand in your education."
"What will you be teaching me, sir?"
"Oh, a little of this, a little of that,"
"If I’m having lessons with you, I won’t have to do Occlumency lessons with Snape, will I?"
"Professor Snape, Harry — and no, you will not."
"Good,” said Harry in relief, “because they were a —"
"I think the word ‘fiasco’ would be a good one here,"
"Well, that means I won’t see much of Professor Snape from now on,” he said, “because he won’t let me carry on Potions unless I get ‘Outstanding’ in my O.W.L., which I know I haven’t."
"Don’t count your owls before they are delivered,"
"Firstly, I wish you to keep your Invisibility Cloak with you at all times from this moment onward. Even within Hogwarts itself. Just in case, you understand me?"
"And lastly, while you stay here, the Burrow has been given the highest security the Ministry of Magic can provide. These measures have caused a certain amount of inconvenience to Arthur and Molly — all their post, for instance, is being searched at the Ministry before being sent on. They do not mind in the slightest, for their only concern is your safety. However, it would be poor repayment if you risked your neck while staying with them."
"I understand,"
"Very well, then,” said Dumbledore, pushing open the broom shed door and stepping out into the yard. “I see a light in the kitchen. Let us not deprive Molly any longer of the chance to deplore how thin you are."
"Who’s there?” said a nervous voice he recognized as Mrs. Weasley’s. “Declare yourself!"
"It is I, Dumbledore, bringing Harry."
"Harry, dear! Gracious, Albus, you gave me a fright, you said not to expect you before morning!"
"We were lucky,” said Dumbledore, ushering Harry over the threshold. “Slughorn proved much more persuadable than I had expected. Harry’s doing, of course. Ah, hello, Nymphadora!"
"Hello, Professor,” she said. “Wotcher, Harry."
"Hi, Tonks."
"I’d better be off,” she said quickly, standing up and pulling her cloak around her shoulders. “Thanks for the tea and sympathy, Molly."
"Please don’t leave on my account,” said Dumbledore courteously, “I cannot stay, I have urgent matters to discuss with Rufus Scrimgeour."
"No, no, I need to get going,” said Tonks, not meeting Dumbledore’s eyes. “’Night —"
"Dear, why not come to dinner at the weekend, Remus and Mad-Eye are coming — ?"
"No, really, Molly . . . thanks anyway . . . Good night, everyone."
"Well, I shall see you at Hogwarts, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Take care of yourself. Molly, your servant."
"You’re like Ron,” she sighed, looking him up and down. “Both of you look as though you’ve had Stretching Jinxes put on you. I swear Ron’s grown four inches since I last bought him school robes. Are you hungry, Harry?"
"Yeah, I am,"
"Sit down, dear, I’ll knock something up."
"So Hermione’s here?"
"Oh yes, she arrived the day before yesterday,” said Mrs. Weasley, rapping a large iron pot with her wand. It bounced onto the stove with a loud clang and began to bubble at once. “Everyone’s in bed, of course, we didn’t expect you for hours. Here you are —"
"Bread, dear?"
"Thanks, Mrs. Weasley."
"So you persuaded Horace Slughorn to take the job?"
"He taught Arthur and me,” said Mrs. Weasley. “He was at Hogwarts for ages, started around the same time as Dumbledore, I think. Did you like him?"
"I know what you mean,” said Mrs. Weasley, nodding wisely. “Of course he can be charming when he wants to be, but Arthur’s never liked him much. The Ministry’s littered with Slughorn’s old favorites, he was always good at giving leg ups, but he never had much time for Arthur — didn’t seem to think he was enough of a highflier. Well, that just shows you, even Slughorn makes mistakes. I don’t know whether Ron’s told you in any of his letters — it’s only just happened — but Arthur’s been promoted!"
"That’s great!"
"You are sweet,” beamed Mrs. Weasley, possibly taking his watering eyes for emotion at the news. “Yes, Rufus Scrimgeour has set up several new offices in response to the present situation, and Arthur’s heading the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Objects. It’s a big job, he’s got ten people reporting to him now!"
"What exactly — ?"
"Well, you see, in all the panic about You-Know-Who, odd things have been cropping up for sale everywhere, things that are supposed to guard against You-Know-Who and the Death Eaters. You can imagine the kind of thing — so-called protective potions that are really gravy with a bit of bubotuber pus added, or instructions for defensive jinxes that actually make your ears fall off. . . . Well, in the main the perpetrators are just people like Mundungus Fletcher, who’ve never done an honest day’s work in their lives and are taking advantage of how frightened everybody is, but every now and then something really nasty turns up. The other day Arthur confiscated a box of cursed Sneakoscopes that were almost certainly planted by a Death Eater. So you see, it’s a very important job, and I tell him it’s just silly to miss dealing with spark plugs and toasters and all the rest of that Muggle rubbish."
"Is Mr. Weasley still at work?"
"Yes, he is. As a matter of fact, he’s a tiny bit late. . . . He said he’d be back around midnight. . . ."
"mortal peril."
"It’s been like that for a while now,” said Mrs. Weasley, in an unconvincingly casual voice, “ever since You-Know-Who came back into the open. I suppose everybody’s in mortal danger now. . . . I don’t think it can be just our family . . . but I don’t know anyone else who’s got a clock like this, so I can’t check. Oh!"
"traveling."
"He’s coming!"
"Arthur, is that you?"
"Yes,” came Mr. Weasley’s weary voice. “But I would say that even if I were a Death Eater, dear. Ask the question!"
"Oh, honestly . . ."
"Molly!"
"All right, all right . . . What is your dearest ambition?"
"To find out how airplanes stay up."
"Molly! I’ve got to ask you your question first!"
"Arthur, really, this is just silly. . . ."
"What do you like me to call you when we’re alone together?"
"Mollywobbles,"
"Correct,” said Mr. Weasley. “Now you can let me in."
"I still don’t see why we have to go through that every time you come home,” said Mrs. Weasley, still pink in the face as she helped her husband out of his cloak. “I mean, a Death Eater might have forced the answer out of you before impersonating you!"
"I know, dear, but it’s Ministry procedure, and I have to set an example. Something smells good — onion soup?"
"Harry! We didn’t expect you until morning!"
"Thanks, Molly. It’s been a tough night. Some idiot’s started selling Metamorph-Medals. Just sling them around your neck and you’ll be able to change your appearance at will. A hundred thousand disguises, all for ten Galleons!"
"And what really happens when you put them on?"
"Mostly you just turn a fairly unpleasant orange color, but a couple of people have also sprouted tentaclelike warts all over their bodies. As if St. Mungo’s didn’t have enough to do already!"
"It sounds like the sort of thing Fred and George would find funny,” said Mrs. Weasley hesitantly. “Are you sure — ?"
"Of course I am!” said Mr. Weasley. “The boys wouldn’t do anything like that now, not when people are desperate for protection!"
"So is that why you’re late, Metamorph-Medals?"
"No, we got wind of a nasty backfiring jinx down in Elephant and Castle, but luckily the Magical Law Enforcement Squad had sorted it out by the time we got there. . . ."
"Bed,” said an undeceived Mrs. Weasley at once. “I’ve got Fred and George’s room all ready for you, you’ll have it to yourself."
"Why, where are they?"
"Oh, they’re in Diagon Alley, sleeping in the little flat over their joke shop as they’re so busy,” said Mrs. Weasley. “I must say, I didn’t approve at first, but they do seem to have a bit of a flair for business! Come on, dear, your trunk’s already up there."
"’Night, Mr. Weasley,"
"G’night, Harry,"
"mortal peril."
"Wuzzgoinon?"
"We didn’t know you were here already!"
"Ron, don’t hit him!"
"All right?"
"Never been better,” said Harry, rubbing the top of his head and slumping back onto his pillows. “You?"
"Not bad,” said Ron, pulling over a cardboard box and sitting on it. “When did you get here? Mum’s only just told us!"
"About one o’clock this morning."
"Were the Muggles all right? Did they treat you okay?"
"Same as usual,” said Harry, as Hermione perched herself on the edge of his bed, “they didn’t talk to me much, but I like it better that way. How’re you, Hermione?"
"Oh, I’m fine,” said Hermione, who was scrutinizing Harry as though he was sickening for something. He thought he knew what was behind this, and as he had no wish to discuss Sirius’s death or any other miserable subject at the moment, he said, “What’s the time? Have I missed breakfast?"
"Don’t worry about that, Mum’s bringing you up a tray; she reckons you look underfed,” said Ron, rolling his eyes. “So, what’s been going on?"
"Nothing much, I’ve just been stuck at my aunt and uncle’s, haven’t I?"
"Come off it!” said Ron. “You’ve been off with Dumbledore!"
"It wasn’t that exciting. He just wanted me to help him persuade this old teacher to come out of retirement. His name’s Horace Slughorn."
"Oh,” said Ron, looking disappointed. “We thought —"
"— we thought it’d be something like that."
"You did?"
"Yeah . . . yeah, now Umbridge has left, obviously we need a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, don’t we? So, er, what’s he like?"
"He looks a bit like a walrus, and he used to be Head of Slytherin,” said Harry. “Something wrong, Hermione?"
"No, of course not! So, um, did Slughorn seem like he’ll be a good teacher?"
"Dunno,” said Harry. “He can’t be worse than Umbridge, can he?"
"I know someone who’s worse than Umbridge,” said a voice from the doorway. Ron’s younger sister slouched into the room, looking irritable. “Hi, Harry."
"What’s up with you?"
"It’s her,” said Ginny, plonking herself down on Harry’s bed. “She’s driving me mad."
"What’s she done now?"
"It’s the way she talks to me — you’d think I was about three!"
"I know,” said Hermione, dropping her voice. “She’s so full of herself."
"Can’t you two lay off her for five seconds?"
"Oh, that’s right, defend her,” snapped Ginny. “We all know you can’t get enough of her."
"Who are you — ?"
"’Arry,” she said in a throaty voice. “Eet ’as been too long!"
"There was no need to bring up the tray, I was just about to do it myself!"
"Eet was no trouble,” said Fleur Delacour, setting the tray across Harry’s knees and then swooping to kiss him on each cheek: He felt the places where her mouth had touched him burn. “I ’ave been longing to see ’im. You remember my seester, Gabrielle? She never stops talking about ’Arry Potter. She will be delighted to see you again."
"Oh . . . is she here too?"
"No, no, silly boy,” said Fleur with a tinkling laugh, “I mean next summer, when we — but do you not know?"
"We hadn’t got around to telling him yet."
"Bill and I are going to be married!"
"Oh,” said Harry blankly. He could not help noticing how Mrs. Weasley, Hermione, and Ginny were all determinedly avoiding one another’s gaze. “Wow. Er — congratulations!"
"Bill is very busy at ze moment, working very ’ard, and I only work part-time at Gringotts for my Eenglish, so he brought me ’ere for a few days to get to know ’is family properly. I was so pleased to ’ear you would be coming — zere isn’t much to do ’ere, unless you like cooking and chickens! Well — enjoy your breakfast, ’Arry!"
"tchah!"
"Mum hates her,"
"I do not hate her!” said Mrs. Weasley in a cross whisper. “I just think they’ve hurried into this engagement, that’s all!"
"They’ve known each other a year,"
"Well, that’s not very long! I know why it’s happened, of course. It’s all this uncertainty with You-Know-Who coming back, people think they might be dead tomorrow, so they’re rushing all sorts of decisions they’d normally take time over. It was the same last time he was powerful, people eloping left, right, and center —"
"Including you and Dad,"
"Yes, well, your father and I were made for each other, what was the point in waiting?” said Mrs. Weasley. “Whereas Bill and Fleur . . . well . . . what have they really got in common? He’s a hardworking, down-to-earth sort of person, whereas she’s —"
"A cow,” said Ginny, nodding. “But Bill’s not that down-to-earth. He’s a Curse-Breaker, isn’t he, he likes a bit of adventure, a bit of glamour. . . . I expect that’s why he’s gone for Phlegm."
"Stop calling her that, Ginny,” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Harry and Hermione laughed. “Well, I’d better get on. . . . Eat your eggs while they’re warm, Harry."
"Don’t you get used to her if she’s staying in the same house?"
"Well, you do,” said Ron, “but if she jumps out at you unexpectedly, like then . . ."
"It’s pathetic,"
"You don’t really want her around forever?” Ginny asked Ron incredulously. When he merely shrugged, she said, “Well, Mum’s going to put a stop to it if she can, I bet you anything."
"How’s she going to manage that?"
"She keeps trying to get Tonks round for dinner. I think she’s hoping Bill will fall for Tonks instead. I hope he does, I’d much rather have her in the family."
"Yeah, that’ll work,” said Ron sarcastically. “Listen, no bloke in his right mind’s going to fancy Tonks when Fleur’s around. I mean, Tonks is okay-looking when she isn’t doing stupid things to her hair and her nose, but —"
"She’s a damn sight nicer than Phlegm,"
"And she’s more intelligent, she’s an Auror!"
"Fleur’s not stupid, she was good enough to enter the Triwizard Tournament,"
"Not you as well!"
"I suppose you like the way Phlegm says ‘’Arry,’ do you?"
"No,” said Harry, wishing he hadn’t spoken, “I was just saying, Phlegm — I mean, Fleur —"
"I’d much rather have Tonks in the family,” said Ginny. “At least she’s a laugh."
"She hasn’t been much of a laugh lately,” said Ron. “Every time I’ve seen her she’s looked more like Moaning Myrtle."
"That’s not fair,” snapped Hermione. “She still hasn’t got over what happened . . . you know . . . I mean, he was her cousin!"
"Tonks and Sirius barely knew each other!” said Ron. “Sirius was in Azkaban half her life and before that their families never met —"
"That’s not the point,” said Hermione. “She thinks it was her fault he died!"
"How does she work that one out?"
"Well, she was fighting Bellatrix Lestrange, wasn’t she? I think she feels that if only she had finished her off, Bellatrix couldn’t have killed Sirius."
"That’s stupid,"
"It’s survivor’s guilt,” said Hermione. “I know Lupin’s tried to talk her round, but she’s still really down. She’s actually having trouble with her Metamorphosing!"
"With her — ?"
"She can’t change her appearance like she used to,” explained Hermione. “I think her powers must have been affected by shock, or something."
"I didn’t know that could happen,"
"Nor did I,” said Hermione, “but I suppose if you’re really depressed . . ."
"Ginny,” she whispered, “come downstairs and help me with the lunch."
"I’m talking to this lot!"
"Now!"
"She only wants me there so she doesn’t have to be alone with Phlegm!"
"You lot had better come down quickly too,"
"What’s this?"
"Dunno,” said Ron, “but if Fred and George’ve left it here, it’s probably not ready for the joke shop yet, so be careful."
"Your mum said the shop’s going well,” said Harry. “Said Fred and George have got a real flair for business."
"That’s an understatement,” said Ron. “They’re raking in the Galleons! I can’t wait to see the place, we haven’t been to Diagon Alley yet, because Mum says Dad’s got to be there for extra security and he’s been really busy at work, but it sounds excellent."
"And what about Percy?” asked Harry; the third-eldest Weasley brother had fallen out with the rest of the family. “Is he talking to your mum and dad again?"
"Nope,"
"But he knows your dad was right all along now about Voldemort being back —"
"Dumbledore says people find it far easier to forgive others for being wrong than being right,” said Hermione. “I heard him telling your mum, Ron."
"Sounds like the sort of mental thing Dumbledore would say,"
"He’s going to be giving me private lessons this year,"
"You kept that quiet!"
"I only just remembered,” said Harry honestly. “He told me last night in your broom shed."
"Blimey . . . private lessons with Dumbledore!” said Ron, looking impressed. “I wonder why he’s . . . ?"
"I don’t know exactly why he’s going to be giving me lessons, but I think it must be because of the prophecy."
"You know, the one they were trying to steal at the Ministry."
"Nobody knows what it said, though,” said Hermione quickly. “It got smashed."
"Although the Prophet says —” began Ron, but Hermione said, “Shh!"
"The Prophet’s got it right,” said Harry, looking up at them both with a great effort: Hermione seemed frightened and Ron amazed. “That glass ball that smashed wasn’t the only record of the prophecy. I heard the whole thing in Dumbledore’s office, he was the one the prophecy was made to, so he could tell me. From what it said,” Harry took a deep breath, “it looks like I’m the one who’s got to finish off Voldemort. . . . At least, it said neither of us could live while the other survives."
"Hermione!"
"I squeezed it and it — it punched me!"
"Don’t worry,” said Ron, who was plainly trying not to laugh, “Mum’ll fix that, she’s good at healing minor injuries —"
"Oh well, never mind that now!” said Hermione hastily. “Harry, oh, Harry . . ."
"We wondered, after we got back from the Ministry . . . Obviously, we didn’t want to say anything to you, but from what Lucius Malfoy said about the prophecy, how it was about you and Voldemort, well, we thought it might be something like this. . . . Oh, Harry . . .” She stared at him, then whispered, “Are you scared?"
"Not as much as I was,” said Harry. “When I first heard it, I was . . . but now, it seems as though I always knew I’d have to face him in the end. . . ."
"When we heard Dumbledore was collecting you in person, we thought he might be telling you something or showing you something to do with the prophecy,” said Ron eagerly. “And we were kind of right, weren’t we? He wouldn’t be giving you lessons if he thought you were a goner, wouldn’t waste his time — he must think you’ve got a chance!"
"That’s true,” said Hermione. “I wonder what he’ll teach you, Harry? Really advanced defensive magic, probably . . . powerful countercurses . . . anti-jinxes . . ."
". . . and evasive enchantments generally,” concluded Hermione. “Well, at least you know one lesson you’ll be having this year, that’s one more than Ron and me. I wonder when our O.W.L. results will come?"
"Can’t be long now, it’s been a month,"
"Hang on,” said Harry, as another part of last night’s conversation came back to him. “I think Dumbledore said our O.W.L. results would be arriving today!"
"Today?” shrieked Hermione. “Today? But why didn’t you — oh my God — you should have said —"
"I’m going to see whether any owls have come. . . ."
"It just won’t budge,” Mrs. Weasley was saying anxiously, standing over Hermione with her wand in her hand and a copy of The Healer’s Helpmate open at “Bruises, Cuts, and Abrasions.” “This has always worked before, I just can’t understand it."
"It’ll be Fred and George’s idea of a funny joke, making sure it can’t come off,"
"But it’s got to come off!” squeaked Hermione. “I can’t go around looking like this forever!"
"You won’t, dear, we’ll find an antidote, don’t worry,"
"Bill told me ’ow Fred and George are very amusing!"
"Yes, I can hardly breathe for laughing,"
"Mrs. Weasley, you’re quite, quite sure no owls have arrived this morning?"
"Yes, dear, I’d have noticed,” said Mrs. Weasley patiently. “But it’s barely nine, there’s still plenty of time. . . ."
"I know I messed up Ancient Runes,” muttered Hermione feverishly, “I definitely made at least one serious mistranslation. And the Defense Against the Dark Arts practical was no good at all. I thought Transfiguration went all right at the time, but looking back —"
"Hermione, will you shut up, you’re not the only one who’s nervous!” barked Ron. “And when you’ve got your ten ‘Outstanding’ O.W.L.s . . ."
"Don’t, don’t, don’t!” said Hermione, flapping her hands hysterically. “I know I’ve failed everything!"
"What happens if we fail?"
"We discuss our options with our Head of House, I asked Professor McGonagall at the end of last term."
"At Beauxbatons,” said Fleur complacently, “we ’ad a different way of doing things. I think eet was better. We sat our examinations after six years of study, not five, and then —"
"They’re definitely owls,"
"And there are three of them,"
"One for each of us,” said Hermione in a terrified whisper. “Oh no . . . oh no . . . oh no . . ."
"Oh no!"
"Outstanding"
"Only failed Divination and History of Magic, and who cares about them?” he said happily to Harry. “Here — swap —"
"Outstandings"
"Knew you’d be top at Defense Against the Dark Arts,” said Ron, punching Harry on the shoulder. “We’ve done all right, haven’t we?"
"Well done!” said Mrs. Weasley proudly, ruffling Ron’s hair. “Seven O.W.L.s, that’s more than Fred and George got together!"
"Hermione?” said Ginny tentatively, for Hermione still hadn’t turned around. “How did you do?"
"I — not bad,"
"Oh, come off it,” said Ron, striding over to her and whipping her results out of her hand. “Yep — nine ‘Outstandings’ and one ‘Exceeds Expectations’ at Defense Against the Dark Arts.” He looked down at her, half-amused, half-exasperated. “You’re actually disappointed, aren’t you?"
"Well, we’re N.E.W.T. students now!” grinned Ron. “Mum, are there any more sausages?"
"There have been another couple of dementor attacks,” he announced, as Mrs. Weasley passed him a large slice of birthday cake. “And they’ve found Igor Karkaroff’s body in a shack up north. The Dark Mark had been set over it — well, frankly, I’m surprised he stayed alive for even a year after deserting the Death Eaters; Sirius’s brother, Regulus, only managed a few days as far as I can remember."
"Yes, well,” said Mrs. Weasley, frowning, “perhaps we should talk about something diff —"
"Did you hear about Florean Fortescue, Remus?” asked Bill, who was being plied with wine by Fleur. “The man who ran —"
"— the ice-cream place in Diagon Alley?” Harry interrupted, with an unpleasant, hollow sensation in the pit of his stomach. “He used to give me free ice creams. What’s happened to him?"
"Dragged off, by the look of his place."
"Why?"
"Who knows? He must’ve upset them somehow. He was a good man, Florean."
"Talking of Diagon Alley,” said Mr. Weasley, “looks like Ollivander’s gone too."
"The wandmaker?"
"That’s the one. Shop’s empty. No sign of a struggle. No one knows whether he left voluntarily or was kidnapped."
"But wands — what’ll people do for wands?"
"They’ll make do with other makers,” said Lupin. “But Ollivander was the best, and if the other side have got him it’s not so good for us."
"That gives you equal status with prefects!” cried Hermione happily. “You can use our special bathroom now and everything!"
"Wow, I remember when Charlie wore one of these,” said Ron, examining the badge with glee. “Harry, this is so cool, you’re my Captain — if you let me back on the team, I suppose, ha ha. . . ."
"Well, I don’t suppose we can put off a trip to Diagon Alley much longer now you’ve got these,” sighed Mrs. Weasley, looking down Ron’s booklist. “We’ll go on Saturday as long as your father doesn’t have to go into work again. I’m not going there without him."
"Mum, d’you honestly think You-Know-Who’s going to be hiding behind a bookshelf in Flourish and Blotts?"
"Fortescue and Ollivander went on holiday, did they?” said Mrs. Weasley, firing up at once. “If you think security’s a laughing matter you can stay behind and I’ll get your things myself —"
"No, I wanna come, I want to see Fred and George’s shop!"
"Then you just buck up your ideas, young man, before I decide you’re too immature to come with us!” said Mrs. Weasley angrily, snatching up her clock, all nine hands of which were still pointing at “mortal peril,” and balancing it on top of a pile of just-laundered towels. “And that goes for returning to Hogwarts as well!"
"Blimey . . . you can’t even make a joke round here anymore. . . ."
"Where’s mine?"
"That’s already Harry’s, idiot,” said Bill. “I got it out of your vault for you, Harry, because it’s taking about five hours for the public to get to their gold at the moment, the goblins have tightened security so much. Two days ago Arkie Philpott had a Probity Probe stuck up his . . . Well, trust me, this way’s easier."
"Thanks, Bill,"
"’E is always so thoughtful,"
"It’s good Dad can get us these again,"
"Don’t get used to it, it’s only because of Harry,” said Mr. Weasley over his shoulder. He and Mrs. Weasley were in front with the Ministry driver; the front passenger seat had obligingly stretched into what resembled a two-seater sofa. “He’s been given top-grade security status. And we’ll be joining up with additional security at the Leaky Cauldron too."
"Here you are, then,” said the driver, a surprisingly short while later, speaking for the first time as he slowed in Charing Cross Road and stopped outside the Leaky Cauldron. “I’m to wait for you, any idea how long you’ll be?"
"A couple of hours, I expect,” said Mr. Weasley. “Ah, good, he’s here!"
"Harry!” he boomed, sweeping Harry into a bone-crushing hug the moment Harry had stepped out of the car. “Buckbeak — Witherwings, I mean — yeh should see him, Harry, he’s so happy ter be back in the open air —"
"Glad he’s pleased,” said Harry, grinning as he massaged his ribs. “We didn’t know ‘security’ meant you!"
"I know, jus’ like old times, innit? See, the Ministry wanted ter send a bunch o’ Aurors, but Dumbledore said I’d do,” said Hagrid proudly, throwing out his chest and tucking his thumbs into his pockets. “Let’s get goin’ then — after yeh, Molly, Arthur —"
"Jus’ passin’ through today, Tom, sure yeh understand, Hogwarts business, yeh know."
"One for your little girl, madam?” he called at Mrs. Weasley as they passed, leering at Ginny. “Protect her pretty neck?"
"If I were on duty . . ."
"Yes, but don’t go arresting anyone now, dear, we’re in a hurry,” said Mrs. Weasley, nervously consulting a list. “I think we’d better do Madam Malkin’s first, Hermione wants new dress robes, and Ron’s showing much too much ankle in his school robes, and you must need new ones too, Harry, you’ve grown so much — come on, everyone —"
"Molly, it doesn’t make sense for all of us to go to Madam Malkin’s,” said Mr. Weasley. “Why don’t those three go with Hagrid, and we can go to Flourish and Blotts and get everyone’s schoolbooks?"
"I don’t know,” said Mrs. Weasley anxiously, clearly torn between a desire to finish the shopping quickly and the wish to stick together in a pack. “Hagrid, do you think — ?"
"Don’ fret, they’ll be fine with me, Molly,"
"Migh’ be a bit of a squeeze in there with all of us,” said Hagrid, stopping outside Madam Malkin’s and bending down to peer through the window. “I’ll stand guard outside, all right?"
". . . not a child, in case you haven’t noticed, Mother. I am perfectly capable of doing my shopping alone."
"Now, dear, your mother’s quite right, none of us is supposed to go wandering around on our own anymore, it’s nothing to do with being a child —"
"Watch where you’re sticking that pin, will you!"
"If you’re wondering what the smell is, Mother, a Mudblood just walked in,"
"I don’t think there’s any need for language like that!” said Madam Malkin, scurrying out from behind the clothes rack holding a tape measure and a wand. “And I don’t want wands drawn in my shop either!” she added hastily, for a glance toward the door had shown her Harry and Ron both standing there with their wands out and pointing at Malfoy. Hermione, who was standing slightly behind them, whispered, “No, don’t, honestly, it’s not worth it. . . ."
"Yeah, like you’d dare do magic out of school,” sneered Malfoy. “Who blacked your eye, Granger? I want to send them flowers."
"That’s quite enough!” said Madam Malkin sharply, looking over her shoulder for support. “Madam — please —"
"Put those away,” she said coldly to Harry and Ron. “If you attack my son again, I shall ensure that it is the last thing you ever do."
"Really?” said Harry, taking a step forward and gazing into the smoothly arrogant face that, for all its pallor, still resembled her sister’s. He was as tall as she was now. “Going to get a few Death Eater pals to do us in, are you?"
"Really, you shouldn’t accuse — dangerous thing to say — wands away, please!"
"I see that being Dumbledore’s favorite has given you a false sense of security, Harry Potter. But Dumbledore won’t always be there to protect you."
"Wow . . . look at that . . . he’s not here now! So why not have a go? They might be able to find you a double cell in Azkaban with your loser of a husband!"
"Don’t you dare talk to my mother like that, Potter!"
"It’s all right, Draco,” said Narcissa, restraining him with her thin white fingers upon his shoulder. “I expect Potter will be reunited with dear Sirius before I am reunited with Lucius."
"Harry, no!” moaned Hermione, grabbing his arm and attempting to push it down by his side. “Think. . . . You mustn’t. . . . You’ll be in such trouble. . . ."
"I think this left sleeve could come up a little bit more, dear, let me just —"
"Ouch!” bellowed Malfoy, slapping her hand away. “Watch where you’re putting your pins, woman! Mother — I don’t think I want these anymore —"
"You’re right, Draco,” said Narcissa, with a contemptuous glance at Hermione, “now I know the kind of scum that shops here. . . . We’ll do better at Twilfitt and Tatting’s."
"Well, really!"
"Got ev’rything?"
"Just about,” said Harry. “Did you see the Malfoys?"
"Yeah,” said Hagrid, unconcerned. “Bu’ they wouldn’ dare make trouble in the middle o’ Diagon Alley, Harry. Don’ worry abou’ them."
"Everyone all right?” said Mrs. Weasley. “Got your robes? Right then, we can pop in at the Apothecary and Eeylops on the way to Fred and George’s — stick close, now. . . ."
"We really haven’t got too long,” Mrs. Weasley said. “So we’ll just have a quick look around and then back to the car. We must be close, that’s number ninety-two . . . ninety-four . . ."
"Whoa,"
"U-No-Poo."
"They’ll be murdered in their beds!"
"No they won’t!” said Ron, who, like Harry, was laughing. “This is brilliant!"
"‘Patented Daydream Charms . . .’"
"‘One simple incantation and you will enter a top-quality, highly realistic, thirty-minute daydream, easy to fit into the average school lesson and virtually undetectable (side effects include vacant expression and minor drooling). Not for sale to under-sixteens.’ You know,” said Hermione, looking up at Harry, “that really is extraordinary magic!"
"For that, Hermione,” said a voice behind them, “you can have one for free."
"How are you, Harry?” They shook hands. “And what’s happened to your eye, Hermione?"
"Your punching telescope,"
"Oh blimey, I forgot about those,” said Fred. “Here —"
"Just dab it on, that bruise’ll be gone within the hour,” said Fred. “We had to find a decent bruise remover. We’re testing most of our products on ourselves."
"It is safe, isn’t it?"
"’Course it is,” said Fred bracingly. “Come on, Harry, I’ll give you a tour."
"Muggle magic tricks!” said Fred happily, pointing them out. “For freaks like Dad, you know, who love Muggle stuff. It’s not a big earner, but we do fairly steady business, they’re great novelties. . . . Oh, here’s George. . . ."
"Giving him the tour? Come through the back, Harry, that’s where we’re making the real money — pocket anything, you, and you’ll pay in more than Galleons!"
"We’ve just developed this more serious line,” said Fred. “Funny how it happened . . ."
"You wouldn’t believe how many people, even people who work at the Ministry, can’t do a decent Shield Charm,” said George. “’Course, they didn’t have you teaching them, Harry."
"That’s right. . . . Well, we thought Shield Hats were a bit of a laugh, you know, challenge your mate to jinx you while wearing it and watch his face when the jinx just bounces off. But the Ministry bought five hundred for all its support staff! And we’re still getting massive orders!"
"So we’ve expanded into a range of Shield Cloaks, Shield Gloves . . ."
". . . I mean, they wouldn’t help much against the Unforgivable Curses, but for minor to moderate hexes or jinxes . . ."
"And then we thought we’d get into the whole area of Defense Against the Dark Arts, because it’s such a money spinner,” continued George enthusiastically. “This is cool. Look, Instant Darkness Powder, we’re importing it from Peru. Handy if you want to make a quick escape."
"And our Decoy Detonators are just walking off the shelves, look,” said Fred, pointing at a number of weird-looking black horn-type objects that were indeed attempting to scurry out of sight. “You just drop one surreptitiously and it’ll run off and make a nice loud noise out of sight, giving you a diversion if you need one."
"Handy,"
"Here,"
"There’s a customer out here looking for a joke cauldron, Mr. Weasley and Mr. Weasley,"
"Mr. Weasley,"
"Right you are, Verity, I’m coming,” said George promptly. “Harry, you help yourself to anything you want, all right? No charge."
"I can’t do that!"
"You don’t pay here,"
"But —"
"You gave us our start-up loan, we haven’t forgotten,” said George sternly. “Take whatever you like, and just remember to tell people where you got it, if they ask."
"Haven’t you girls found our special WonderWitch products yet?” asked Fred. “Follow me, ladies. . . ."
"There you go,” said Fred proudly. “Best range of love potions you’ll find anywhere."
"Do they work?"
"Certainly they work, for up to twenty-four hours at a time depending on the weight of the boy in question —"
"— and the attractiveness of the girl,” said George, reappearing suddenly at their side. “But we’re not selling them to our sister,” he added, becoming suddenly stern, “not when she’s already got about five boys on the go from what we’ve —"
"Whatever you’ve heard from Ron is a big fat lie,” said Ginny calmly, leaning forward to take a small pink pot off the shelf. “What’s this?"
"Guaranteed ten-second pimple vanisher,” said Fred. “Excellent on everything from boils to blackheads, but don’t change the subject. Are you or are you not currently going out with a boy called Dean Thomas?"
"Yes, I am,” said Ginny. “And last time I looked, he was definitely one boy, not five. What are those?"
"Pygmy Puffs,” said George. “Miniature puffskeins, we can’t breed them fast enough. So what about Michael Corner?"
"I dumped him, he was a bad loser,” said Ginny, putting a finger through the bars of the cage and watching the Pygmy Puffs crowd around it. “They’re really cute!"
"They’re fairly cuddly, yes,” conceded Fred. “But you’re moving through boyfriends a bit fast, aren’t you?"
"It’s none of your business. And I’ll thank you,” she added angrily to Ron, who had just appeared at George’s elbow, laden with merchandise, “not to tell tales about me to these two!"
"That’s three Galleons, nine Sickles, and a Knut,” said Fred, examining the many boxes in Ron’s arms. “Cough up."
"I’m your brother!"
"And that’s our stuff you’re nicking. Three Galleons, nine Sickles. I’ll knock off the Knut."
"But I haven’t got three Galleons, nine Sickles!"
"You’d better put it back then, and mind you put it on the right shelves."
"If I see you do that again I’ll jinx your fingers together,"
"Mum, can I have a Pygmy Puff?"
"A what?"
"Look, they’re so sweet. . . ."
"Wonder where his mummy is?"
"Given her the slip by the looks of it,"
"Why, though?"
"Get under here, quick,"
"Oh — I don’t know, Harry,"
"Come on!"
"He was going in that direction,” murmured Harry as quietly as possible, so that the humming Hagrid would not hear them. “C’mon."
"That’s him, isn’t it?” she whispered. “Turning left?"
"Big surprise,"
"Quick, or we’ll lose him,"
"Our feet’ll be seen!"
"It doesn’t matter,” said Harry impatiently. “Just hurry!"
"Ouch!"
"Shh! Look! He’s in there!"
"If only we could hear what they’re saying!"
"We can!” said Ron excitedly. “Hang on — damn —"
"Extendable Ears, look!"
"Fantastic!” said Hermione, as Ron unraveled the long, flesh-colored strings and began to feed them toward the bottom of the door. “Oh, I hope the door isn’t Imperturbable —"
"No!” said Ron gleefully. “Listen!"
". . . you know how to fix it?"
"Possibly,” said Borgin, in a tone that suggested he was unwilling to commit himself. “I’ll need to see it, though. Why don’t you bring it into the shop?"
"I can’t,” said Malfoy. “It’s got to stay put. I just need you to tell me how to do it."
"Well, without seeing it, I must say it will be a very difficult job, perhaps impossible. I couldn’t guarantee anything."
"No?” said Malfoy, and Harry knew, just by his tone, that Malfoy was sneering. “Perhaps this will make you more confident."
"Tell anyone,” said Malfoy, “and there will be retribution. You know Fenrir Greyback? He’s a family friend. He’ll be dropping in from time to time to make sure you’re giving the problem your full attention."
"There will be no need for —"
"I’ll decide that,” said Malfoy. “Well, I’d better be off. And don’t forget to keep that one safe, I’ll need it."
"Perhaps you’d like to take it now?"
"No, of course I wouldn’t, you stupid little man, how would I look carrying that down the street? Just don’t sell it."
"Of course not . . . sir."
"Not a word to anyone, Borgin, and that includes my mother, understand?"
"Naturally, naturally,"
"What was that about?"
"Dunno,” said Harry, thinking hard. “He wants something mended . . . and he wants to reserve something in there. . . . Could you see what he pointed at when he said ‘that one’?"
"No, he was behind that cabinet —"
"You two stay here,"
"What are you — ?"
"Hello, horrible morning, isn’t it?"
"Is this necklace for sale?"
"If you’ve got one and a half thousand Galleons,"
"Oh — er — no, I haven’t got quite that much,” said Hermione, walking on. “And . . . what about this lovely — um — skull?"
"Sixteen Galleons."
"So it’s for sale, then? It isn’t being . . . kept for anyone?"
"The thing is, that — er — boy who was in here just now, Draco Malfoy, well, he’s a friend of mine, and I want to get him a birthday present, but if he’s already reserved anything, I obviously don’t want to get him the same thing, so . . . um . . ."
"Out,” he said sharply. “Get out!"
"Ah well,” said Ron, throwing the Cloak back over Hermione. “Worth a try, but you were a bit obvious —"
"Well, next time you can show me how it’s done, Master of Mystery!"
"Yes, I’ve already agreed it was fishy, Harry,” said Hermione a little impatiently. She was sitting on the windowsill in Fred and George’s room with her feet up on one of the cardboard boxes and had only grudgingly looked up from her new copy of Advanced Rune Translation. “But haven’t we agreed there could be a lot of explanations?"
"Maybe he’s broken his Hand of Glory,” said Ron vaguely, as he attempted to straighten his broomstick’s bent tail twigs. “Remember that shriveled-up arm Malfoy had?"
"But what about when he said, ‘Don’t forget to keep that one safe’?” asked Harry for the umpteenth time. “That sounded to me like Borgin’s got another one of the broken objects, and Malfoy wants both."
"You reckon?"
"Yeah, I do,” said Harry. When neither Ron nor Hermione answered, he said, “Malfoy’s father’s in Azkaban. Don’t you think Malfoy’d like revenge?"
"Malfoy, revenge? What can he do about it?"
"That’s my point, I don’t know!” said Harry, frustrated. “But he’s up to something and I think we should take it seriously. His father’s a Death Eater and —"
"Harry?” said Hermione in an anxious voice. “What’s wrong?"
"Your scar’s not hurting again, is it?"
"He’s a Death Eater,” said Harry slowly. “He’s replaced his father as a Death Eater!"
"Malfoy? He’s sixteen, Harry! You think You-Know-Who would let Malfoy join?"
"It seems very unlikely, Harry,” said Hermione in a repressive sort of voice. “What makes you think — ?"
"In Madam Malkin’s. She didn’t touch him, but he yelled and jerked his arm away from her when she went to roll up his sleeve. It was his left arm. He’s been branded with the Dark Mark."
"Well . . ."
"I think he just wanted to get out of there, Harry,"
"He showed Borgin something we couldn’t see,” Harry pressed on stubbornly. “Something that seriously scared Borgin. It was the Mark, I know it — he was showing Borgin who he was dealing with, you saw how seriously Borgin took him!"
"I’m not sure, Harry. . . ."
"Yeah, I still don’t reckon You-Know-Who would let Malfoy join. . . ."
"I wouldn’t go in the kitchen just now,” she warned him. “There’s a lot of Phlegm around."
"I’ll be careful not to slip in it."
". . . Bill and I ’ave almost decided on only two bridesmaids, Ginny and Gabrielle will look very sweet togezzer. I am theenking of dressing zem in pale gold — pink would of course be ’orrible with Ginny’s ’air —"
"Ah, Harry!” said Mrs. Weasley loudly, cutting across Fleur’s monologue. “Good, I wanted to explain about the security arrangements for the journey to Hogwarts tomorrow. We’ve got Ministry cars again, and there will be Aurors waiting at the station —"
"Is Tonks going to be there?"
"No, I don’t think so, she’s been stationed somewhere else from what Arthur said."
"She has let ’erself go, zat Tonks,” Fleur mused, examining her own stunning reflection in the back of a teaspoon. “A big mistake if you ask —"
"Yes, thank you,” said Mrs. Weasley tartly, cutting across Fleur again. “You’d better get on, Harry, I want the trunks ready tonight, if possible, so we don’t have the usual last-minute scramble."
"Au revoir, ’Arry,"
"Quick, quick, through the barrier,” said Mrs. Weasley, who seemed a little flustered by this austere efficiency. “Harry had better go first, with —"
"I can walk, thanks,"
"We can’t, Harry,” said Hermione, looking apologetic. “Ron and I’ve got to go to the prefects’ carriage first and then patrol the corridors for a bit."
"Oh yeah, I forgot,"
"You’d better get straight on the train, all of you, you’ve only got a few minutes to go,” said Mrs. Weasley, consulting her watch. “Well, have a lovely term, Ron. . . ."
"Mr. Weasley, can I have a quick word?"
"Of course,"
"When we were in Diagon Alley,"
"Am I about to discover where you, Ron, and Hermione disappeared to while you were supposed to be in the back room of Fred and George’s shop?"
"How did you — ?"
"Harry, please. You’re talking to the man who raised Fred and George."
"Er . . . yeah, all right, we weren’t in the back room."
"Very well, then, let’s hear the worst."
"Well, we followed Draco Malfoy. We used my Invisibility Cloak."
"Did you have any particular reason for doing so, or was it a mere whim?"
"Because I thought Malfoy was up to something,” said Harry, disregarding Mr. Weasley’s look of mingled exasperation and amusement. “He’d given his mother the slip and I wanted to know why."
"Of course you did,” said Mr. Weasley, sounding resigned. “Well? Did you find out why?"
"He went into Borgin and Burkes,” said Harry, “and started bullying the bloke in there, Borgin, to help him fix something. And he said he wanted Borgin to keep something else for him. He made it sound like it was the same kind of thing that needed fixing. Like they were a pair. And . . ."
"There’s something else. We saw Malfoy jump about a mile when Madam Malkin tried to touch his left arm. I think he’s been branded with the Dark Mark. I think he’s replaced his father as a Death Eater."
"Harry, I doubt whether You-Know-Who would allow a sixteen-year-old —"
"Does anyone really know what You-Know-Who would or wouldn’t do?” asked Harry angrily. “Mr. Weasley, I’m sorry, but isn’t it worth investigating? If Malfoy wants something fixing, and he needs to threaten Borgin to get it done, it’s probably something Dark or dangerous, isn’t it?"
"I doubt it, to be honest, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley slowly. “You see, when Lucius Malfoy was arrested, we raided his house. We took away everything that might have been dangerous."
"I think you missed something,"
"Well, maybe,"
"You’d better hurry,” said Mr. Weasley, as Mrs. Weasley cried, “Harry, quickly!"
"Now, dear, you’re coming to us for Christmas, it’s all fixed with Dumbledore, so we’ll see you quite soon,” said Mrs. Weasley through the window, as Harry slammed the door shut behind him and the train began to move. “You make sure you look after yourself and —"
"— be good and —"
"— stay safe!"
"Chosen One"
"Fancy trying to find a compartment?"
"I can’t, Harry, I said I’d meet Dean,” said Ginny brightly. “See you later."
"Right,"
"Hi, Harry!"
"Neville!"
"Hello, Harry,"
"Luna, hi, how are you?"
"Very well, thank you,"
"Quibbler still going strong, then?"
"Oh yes, circulation’s well up,"
"Let’s find seats,"
"They’re even staring at us!” said Neville, indicating himself and Luna. “Because we’re with you!"
"They’re staring at you because you were at the Ministry too,” said Harry, as he hoisted his trunk into the luggage rack. “Our little adventure there was all over the Daily Prophet, you must’ve seen it."
"Yes, I thought Gran would be angry about all the publicity,” said Neville, “but she was really pleased. Says I’m starting to live up to my dad at long last. She bought me a new wand, look!"
"Cherry and unicorn hair,” he said proudly. “We think it was one of the last Ollivander ever sold, he vanished next day — oi, come back here, Trevor!"
"Are we still doing D.A. meetings this year, Harry?"
"No point now we’ve got rid of Umbridge, is there?"
"I liked the D.A.! I learned loads with you!"
"I enjoyed the meetings too,” said Luna serenely. “It was like having friends."
"You ask him!"
"No, you!"
"I’ll do it!"
"Hi, Harry, I’m Romilda, Romilda Vane,” she said loudly and confidently. “Why don’t you join us in our compartment? You don’t have to sit with them,"
"They’re friends of mine,"
"Oh,” said the girl, looking very surprised. “Oh. Okay."
"People expect you to have cooler friends than us,"
"You are cool,” said Harry shortly. “None of them was at the Ministry. They didn’t fight with me."
"That’s a very nice thing to say,"
"We didn’t face him, though,” said Neville, emerging from under the seat with fluff and dust in his hair and a resigned-looking Trevor in his hand. “You did. You should hear my gran talk about you. ‘That Harry Potter’s got more backbone than the whole Ministry of Magic put together!’ She’d give anything to have you as a grandson. . . ."
"Acceptable,"
"Chosen One"
"You all right, Harry? You look funny,"
"Sorry — I —"
"Wrackspurt got you?"
"I — what?"
"A Wrackspurt . . . They’re invisible. They float in through your ears and make your brain go fuzzy,” she said. “I thought I felt one zooming around in here."
"Wish the lunch trolley would hurry up, I’m starving,” said Ron longingly, slumping into the seat beside Harry and rubbing his stomach. “Hi, Neville. Hi, Luna. Guess what?” he added, turning to Harry. “Malfoy’s not doing prefect duty. He’s just sitting in his compartment with the other Slytherins, we saw him when we passed."
"What did he do when he saw you?"
"The usual,” said Ron indifferently, demonstrating a rude hand gesture. “Not like him, though, is it? Well — that is” — he did the hand gesture again — “but why isn’t he out there bullying first years?"
"Dunno,"
"Maybe he preferred the Inquisitorial Squad,” said Hermione. “Maybe being a prefect seems a bit tame after that."
"I don’t think so,” said Harry. “I think he’s —"
"I’m supposed to deliver these to Neville Longbottom and Harry P-Potter,"
"What is it?"
"An invitation,"
"Who’s Professor Slughorn?"
"New teacher,” said Harry. “Well, I suppose we’ll have to go, won’t we?"
"But what does he want me for?"
"No idea,” said Harry, which was not entirely true, though he had no proof yet that his hunch was correct. “Listen,” he added, seized by a sudden brain wave, “let’s go under the Invisibility Cloak, then we might get a good look at Malfoy on the way, see what he’s up to."
"Harry, m’boy!” said Slughorn, jumping up at the sight of him so that his great velvet-covered belly seemed to fill all the remaining space in the compartment. His shiny bald head and great silvery mustache gleamed as brightly in the sunlight as the golden buttons on his waistcoat. “Good to see you, good to see you! And you must be Mr. Longbottom!"
"Now, do you know everyone?” Slughorn asked Harry and Neville. “Blaise Zabini is in your year, of course —"
"This is Cormac McLaggen, perhaps you’ve come across each other — ? No?"
"— and this is Marcus Belby, I don’t know whether — ?"
"— and this charming young lady tells me she knows you!"
"Well now, this is most pleasant,” said Slughorn cozily. “A chance to get to know you all a little better. Here, take a napkin. I’ve packed my own lunch; the trolley, as I remember it, is heavy on licorice wands, and a poor old man’s digestive system isn’t quite up to such things. . . . Pheasant, Belby?"
"I was just telling young Marcus here that I had the pleasure of teaching his Uncle Damocles,” Slughorn told Harry and Neville, now passing around a basket of rolls. “Outstanding wizard, outstanding, and his Order of Merlin most well-deserved. Do you see much of your uncle, Marcus?"
"Anapneo,"
"Not . . . not much of him, no,"
"Well, of course, I daresay he’s busy,” said Slughorn, looking questioningly at Belby. “I doubt he invented the Wolfsbane Potion without considerable hard work!"
"I suppose . . .” said Belby, who seemed afraid to take another bite of pheasant until he was sure that Slughorn had finished with him. “Er . . . he and my dad don’t get on very well, you see, so I don’t really know much about . . ."
"Now, you, Cormac,” said Slughorn, “I happen to know you see a lot of your Uncle Tiberius, because he has a rather splendid picture of the two of you hunting nogtails in, I think, Norfolk?"
"Oh, yeah, that was fun, that was,” said McLaggen. “We went with Bertie Higgs and Rufus Scrimgeour — this was before he became Minister, obviously —"
"Ah, you know Bertie and Rufus too?” beamed Slughorn, now offering around a small tray of pies; somehow, Belby was missed out. “Now tell me . . ."
"And now,” said Slughorn, shifting massively in his seat with the air of a compere introducing his star act. “Harry Potter! Where to begin? I feel I barely scratched the surface when we met over the summer!” He contemplated Harry for a moment as though he was a particularly large and succulent piece of pheasant, then said, “‘The Chosen One,’ they’re calling you now!"
"Of course,” said Slughorn, watching Harry closely, “there have been rumors for years. . . . I remember when — well — after that terrible night — Lily — James — and you survived — and the word was that you must have powers beyond the ordinary —"
"Yeah, Zabini, because you’re so talented . . . at posing. . . ."
"Oh dear!” chuckled Slughorn comfortably, looking around at Ginny, who was glaring at Zabini around Slughorn’s great belly. “You want to be careful, Blaise! I saw this young lady perform the most marvelous Bat-Bogey Hex as I was passing her carriage! I wouldn’t cross her!"
"Anyway,” said Slughorn, turning back to Harry. “Such rumors this summer. Of course, one doesn’t know what to believe, the Prophet has been known to print inaccuracies, make mistakes — but there seems little doubt, given the number of witnesses, that there was quite a disturbance at the Ministry and that you were there in the thick of it all!"
"So modest, so modest, no wonder Dumbledore is so fond — you were there, then? But the rest of the stories — so sensational, of course, one doesn’t know quite what to believe — this fabled prophecy, for instance —"
"We never heard a prophecy,"
"That’s right,” said Ginny staunchly. “Neville and I were both there too, and all this ‘Chosen One’ rubbish is just the Prophet making things up as usual."
"You were both there too, were you?"
"Yes . . . well . . . it is true that the Prophet often exaggerates, of course. . . .” Slughorn said, sounding a little disappointed. “I remember dear Gwenog telling me (Gwenog Jones, I mean, of course, Captain of the Holyhead Harpies) —"
"Slug Club"
"Good gracious, it’s getting dark already! I didn’t notice that they’d lit the lamps! You’d better go and change into your robes, all of you. McLaggen, you must drop by and borrow that book on nogtails. Harry, Blaise — any time you’re passing. Same goes for you, miss,” he twinkled at Ginny. “Well, off you go, off you go!"
"I’m glad that’s over,” muttered Neville. “Strange man, isn’t he?"
"Yeah, he is a bit,” said Harry, his eyes on Zabini. “How come you ended up in there, Ginny?"
"He saw me hex Zacharias Smith,” said Ginny. “You remember that idiot from Hufflepuff who was in the D.A.? He kept on and on asking about what happened at the Ministry and in the end he annoyed me so much I hexed him — when Slughorn came in I thought I was going to get detention, but he just thought it was a really good hex and invited me to lunch! Mad, eh?"
"Better reason for inviting someone than because their mother’s famous,” said Harry, scowling at the back of Zabini’s head, “or because their uncle —"
"I’ll see you two later,"
"But what’re you — ?"
"Later!"
"What’s wrong with this thing?"
"So, Zabini,” said Malfoy, “what did Slughorn want?"
"Just trying to make up to well-connected people,” said Zabini, who was still glowering at Goyle. “Not that he managed to find many."
"Who else had he invited?"
"McLaggen from Gryffindor,"
"Oh yeah, his uncle’s big in the Ministry,"
"— someone else called Belby, from Ravenclaw —"
"Not him, he’s a prat!"
"— and Longbottom, Potter, and that Weasley girl,"
"He invited Longbottom?"
"Well, I assume so, as Longbottom was there,"
"What’s Longbottom got to interest Slughorn?"
"Potter, precious Potter, obviously he wanted a look at ‘the Chosen One,’” sneered Malfoy, “but that Weasley girl! What’s so special about her?"
"A lot of boys like her,” said Pansy, watching Malfoy out of the corner of her eyes for his reaction. “Even you think she’s good-looking, don’t you, Blaise, and we all know how hard you are to please!"
"I wouldn’t touch a filthy little blood traitor like her whatever she looked like,"
"Well, I pity Slughorn’s taste. Maybe he’s going a bit senile. Shame, my father always said he was a good wizard in his day. My father used to be a bit of a favorite of his. Slughorn probably hasn’t heard I’m on the train, or —"
"I wouldn’t bank on an invitation,” said Zabini. “He asked me about Nott’s father when I first arrived. They used to be old friends, apparently, but when he heard he’d been caught at the Ministry he didn’t look happy, and Nott didn’t get an invitation, did he? I don’t think Slughorn’s interested in Death Eaters."
"Well, who cares what he’s interested in? What is he, when you come down to it? Just some stupid teacher.” Malfoy yawned ostentatiously. “I mean, I might not even be at Hogwarts next year, what’s it matter to me if some fat old has-been likes me or not?"
"What do you mean, you might not be at Hogwarts next year?"
"Well, you never know,” said Malfoy with the ghost of a smirk. “I might have — er — moved on to bigger and better things."
"Do you mean — Him?"
"Mother wants me to complete my education, but personally, I don’t see it as that important these days. I mean, think about it. . . . When the Dark Lord takes over, is he going to care how many O.W.L.s or N.E.W.T.s anyone’s got? Of course he isn’t. . . . It’ll be all about the kind of service he received, the level of devotion he was shown."
"And you think you’ll be able to do something for him?” asked Zabini scathingly. “Sixteen years old and not even fully qualified yet?"
"I’ve just said, haven’t I? Maybe he doesn’t care if I’m qualified. Maybe the job he wants me to do isn’t something that you need to be qualified for,"
"I can see Hogwarts,” said Malfoy, clearly relishing the effect he had created as he pointed out of the blackened window. “We’d better get our robes on."
"You go on,” Malfoy told Pansy, who was waiting for him with her hand held out as though hoping he would hold it. “I just want to check something."
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"I thought so,” he said jubilantly. “I heard Goyle’s trunk hit you. And I thought I saw something white flash through the air after Zabini came back. . . ."
"You didn’t hear anything I care about, Potter. But while I’ve got you here . . ."
"That’s from my father. Now, let’s see. . . ."
"I don’t reckon they’ll find you till the train’s back in London,” he said quietly. “See you around, Potter . . . or not."
"Accio Wand!"
"Wotcher, Harry."
"We’d better get out of here, quickly,” she said, as the train windows became obscured with steam and they began to move out of the station. “Come on, we’ll jump."
"Who did it?"
"Draco Malfoy,” said Harry bitterly. “Thanks for . . . well . . ."
"No problem,” said Tonks, without smiling. From what Harry could see in the darkness, she was as mousy-haired and miserable-looking as she had been when he had met her at the Burrow. “I can fix your nose if you stand still."
"Episkey,"
"Thanks a lot!"
"You’d better put that Cloak back on, and we can walk up to the school,"
"Was that a Patronus?"
"Yes, I’m sending word to the castle that I’ve got you or they’ll worry. Come on, we’d better not dawdle."
"How did you find me?"
"I noticed you hadn’t left the train and I knew you had that Cloak. I thought you might be hiding for some reason. When I saw the blinds were drawn down on that compartment I thought I’d check."
"But what are you doing here, anyway?"
"I’m stationed in Hogsmeade now, to give the school extra protection,"
"Is it just you who’s stationed up here, or — ?"
"No, Proudfoot, Savage, and Dawlish are here too."
"Dawlish, that Auror Dumbledore attacked last year?"
"That’s right."
"Alohomora!"
"That won’t work on these,” said Tonks. “Dumbledore bewitched them himself."
"I could climb a wall,"
"No, you couldn’t,” said Tonks flatly. “Anti-intruder jinxes on all of them. Security’s been tightened a hundredfold this summer."
"Well then,” said Harry, starting to feel annoyed at her lack of helpfulness, “I suppose I’ll just have to sleep out here and wait for morning."
"Someone’s coming down for you,” said Tonks. “Look."
"Well, well, well,” sneered Snape, taking out his wand and tapping the padlock once, so that the chains snaked backward and the gates creaked open. “Nice of you to turn up, Potter, although you have evidently decided that the wearing of school robes would detract from your appearance."
"I couldn’t change, I didn’t have my —"
"There is no need to wait, Nymphadora, Potter is quite — ah — safe in my hands."
"I meant Hagrid to get the message,"
"Hagrid was late for the start-of-term feast, just like Potter here, so I took it instead. And incidentally,” said Snape, standing back to allow Harry to pass him, “I was interested to see your new Patronus."
"I think you were better off with the old one,” said Snape, the malice in his voice unmistakable. “The new one looks weak."
"Good night,” Harry called to her over his shoulder, as he began the walk up to the school with Snape. “Thanks for . . . everything."
"See you, Harry."
"Fifty points from Gryffindor for lateness, I think,” said Snape. “And, let me see, another twenty for your Muggle attire. You know, I don’t believe any House has ever been in negative figures this early in the term: We haven’t even started pudding. You might have set a record, Potter."
"I suppose you wanted to make an entrance, did you?” Snape continued. “And with no flying car available you decided that bursting into the Great Hall halfway through the feast ought to create a dramatic effect."
"No Cloak. You can walk in so that everyone sees you, which is what you wanted, I’m sure."
"Where’ve you — blimey, what’ve you done to your face?"
"Why, what’s wrong with it?"
"You’re covered in blood!” said Hermione. “Come here —"
"Tergeo!"
"Thanks,” said Harry, feeling his now clean face. “How’s my nose looking?"
"Normal,” said Hermione anxiously. “Why shouldn’t it? Harry, what happened? We’ve been terrified!"
"I’ll tell you later,"
"But —"
"Not now, Hermione,"
"You missed the Sorting, anyway,"
"Hat say anything interesting?"
"More of the same, really . . . advising us all to unite in the face of our enemies, you know."
"Dumbledore mentioned Voldemort at all?"
"Not yet, but he always saves his proper speech for after the feast, doesn’t he? It can’t be long now."
"Snape said Hagrid was late for the feast —"
"You’ve seen Snape? How come?"
"Bumped into him,"
"Hagrid was only a few minutes late,” said Hermione. “Look, he’s waving at you, Harry."
"So what did Professor Slughorn want?"
"To know what really happened at the Ministry,"
"Him and everyone else here,” sniffed Hermione. “People were interrogating us about it on the train, weren’t they, Ron?"
"Yeah,” said Ron. “All wanting to know if you really are ‘the Chosen One’ —"
"There has been much talk on that very subject even amongst the ghosts,” interrupted Nearly Headless Nick, inclining his barely connected head toward Harry so that it wobbled dangerously on its ruff. “I am considered something of a Potter authority; it is widely known that we are friendly. I have assured the spirit community that I will not pester you for information, however. ‘Harry Potter knows that he can confide in me with complete confidence,’ I told them. ‘I would rather die than betray his trust.’"
"That’s not saying much, seeing as you’re already dead,"
"Once again, you show all the sensitivity of a blunt axe,"
"The very best of evenings to you!"
"What happened to his hand?"
"Nothing to worry about,” he said airily. “Now . . . to our new students, welcome, to our old students, welcome back! Another year full of magical education awaits you . . ."
"His hand was like that when I saw him over the summer,” Harry whispered to Hermione. “I thought he’d have cured it by now, though . . . or Madam Pomfrey would’ve done."
"It looks as if it’s died,” said Hermione, with a nauseated expression. “But there are some injuries you can’t cure . . . old curses . . . and there are poisons without antidotes. . . ."
"We are pleased to welcome a new member of staff this year. Professor Slughorn” — Slughorn stood up, his bald head gleaming in the candlelight, his big waistcoated belly casting the table below into shadow — “is a former colleague of mine who has agreed to resume his old post of Potions master."
"Potions?"
"Potions?"
"Potions?” said Ron and Hermione together, turning to stare at Harry. “But you said —"
"Professor Snape, meanwhile,” said Dumbledore, raising his voice so that it carried over all the muttering, “will be taking over the position of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."
"No!"
"But Harry, you said that Slughorn was going to be teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts!"
"I thought he was!"
"Well, there’s one good thing,” he said savagely. “Snape’ll be gone by the end of the year."
"What do you mean?"
"That job’s jinxed. No one’s lasted more than a year. . . . Quirrell actually died doing it. . . . Personally, I’m going to keep my fingers crossed for another death. . . ."
"Harry!"
"He might just go back to teaching Potions at the end of the year,” said Ron reasonably. “That Slughorn bloke might not want to stay long-term. Moody didn’t."
"Now, as everybody in this Hall knows, Lord Voldemort and his followers are once more at large and gaining in strength."
"I cannot emphasize strongly enough how dangerous the present situation is, and how much care each of us at Hogwarts must take to ensure that we remain safe. The castle’s magical fortifications have been strengthened over the summer, we are protected in new and more powerful ways, but we must still guard scrupulously against carelessness on the part of any student or member of staff. I urge you, therefore, to abide by any security restrictions that your teachers might impose upon you, however irksome you might find them — in particular, the rule that you are not to be out of bed after hours. I implore you, should you notice anything strange or suspicious within or outside the castle, to report it to a member of staff immediately. I trust you to conduct yourselves, always, with the utmost regard for your own and others’ safety."
"But now, your beds await, as warm and comfortable as you could possibly wish, and I know that your top priority is to be well-rested for your lessons tomorrow. Let us therefore say good night. Pip pip!"
"What really happened to your nose?"
"I saw Malfoy miming something to do with a nose,"
"Yeah, well, never mind that,” said Harry bitterly. “Listen to what he was saying before he found out I was there. . . ."
"Come on, Harry, he was just showing off for Parkinson. . . . What kind of mission would You-Know-Who have given him?"
"How d’you know Voldemort doesn’t need someone at Hogwarts? It wouldn’t be the first —"
"I wish yeh’d stop sayin’ tha’ name, Harry,"
"Dumbledore uses that name,"
"Yeah, well, tha’s Dumbledore, innit?” said Hagrid mysteriously. “So how come yeh were late, Harry? I was worried."
"Got held up on the train,” said Harry. “Why were you late?"
"I was with Grawp,” said Hagrid happily. “Los’ track o’ the time. He’s got a new home up in the mountains now, Dumbledore fixed it — nice big cave. He’s much happier than he was in the forest. We were havin’ a good chat."
"Really?"
"Oh yeah, he’s really come on,” said Hagrid proudly. “Yeh’ll be amazed. I’m thinkin’ o’ trainin’ him up as me assistant."
"Anyway, I’ll see yeh tomorrow, firs’ lesson’s straight after lunch. Come early an’ yeh can say hello ter Buck — I mean, Witherwings!"
"You’re not taking Care of Magical Creatures, are you?"
"And you’re not either, are you?"
"And Hermione,” said Ron, “she’s not, is she?"
"But he was obviously showing off for Parkinson, wasn’t he?"
"Well,” she said uncertainly, “I don’t know. . . . It would be like Malfoy to make himself seem more important than he is . . . but that’s a big lie to tell. . . ."
"Exactly,"
"It’s rude to point,"
"I love being a sixth year. And we’re going to be getting free time this year. Whole periods when we can just sit up here and relax."
"We’re going to need that time for studying, Ron!"
"Yeah, but not today,” said Ron. “Today’s going to be a real doss, I reckon."
"Hold it!” said Hermione, throwing out an arm and halting a passing fourth year, who was attempting to push past her with a lime-green disk clutched tightly in his hand. “Fanged Frisbees are banned, hand it over,"
"Excellent, I’ve always wanted one of these."
"But he can’t really think we’d continue Care of Magical Creatures!” she said, looking distressed. “I mean, when has any of us expressed . . . you know . . . any enthusiasm?"
"That’s it, though, innit?” said Ron, swallowing an entire fried egg whole. “We were the ones who made the most effort in classes because we like Hagrid. But he thinks we liked the stupid subject. D’you reckon anyone’s going to go on to N.E.W.T.?"
"Herbology, fine,” she said. “Professor Sprout will be delighted to see you back with an ‘Outstanding’ O.W.L. And you qualify for Defense Against the Dark Arts with ‘Exceeds Expectations.’ But the problem is Transfiguration. I’m sorry, Longbottom, but an ‘Acceptable’ really isn’t good enough to continue to N.E.W.T. level. I just don’t think you’d be able to cope with the coursework."
"Why do you want to continue with Transfiguration, anyway? I’ve never had the impression that you particularly enjoyed it."
"my grandmother wants."
"Hmph,” snorted Professor McGonagall. “It’s high time your grandmother learned to be proud of the grandson she’s got, rather than the one she thinks she ought to have — particularly after what happened at the Ministry."
"I’m sorry, Longbottom, but I cannot let you into my N.E.W.T. class. I see that you have an ‘Exceeds Expectations’ in Charms, however — why not try for a N.E.W.T. in Charms?"
"My grandmother thinks Charms is a soft option,"
"Take Charms,” said Professor McGonagall, “and I shall drop Augusta a line reminding her that just because she failed her Charms O.W.L., the subject is not necessarily worthless."
"He and Professor Trelawney are dividing classes between them this year,” said Professor McGonagall, a hint of disapproval in her voice; it was common knowledge that she despised the subject of Divination. “The sixth year is being taken by Professor Trelawney."
"So, Potter, Potter . . .” said Professor McGonagall, consulting her notes as she turned to Harry. “Charms, Defense Against the Dark Arts, Herbology, Transfiguration . . . all fine. I must say, I was pleased with your Transfiguration mark, Potter, very pleased. Now, why haven’t you applied to continue with Potions? I thought it was your ambition to become an Auror?"
"It was, but you told me I had to get an ‘Outstanding’ in my O.W.L., Professor."
"And so you did when Professor Snape was teaching the subject. Professor Slughorn, however, is perfectly happy to accept N.E.W.T. students with ‘Exceeds Expectations’ at O.W.L. Do you wish to proceed with Potions?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “but I didn’t buy the books or any ingredients or anything —"
"I’m sure Professor Slughorn will be able to lend you some,” said Professor McGonagall. “Very well, Potter, here is your schedule. Oh, by the way — twenty hopefuls have already put down their names for the Gryffindor Quidditch team. I shall pass the list to you in due course and you can fix up trials at your leisure."
"Look,” said Ron delightedly, gazing at his schedule, “we’ve got a free period now . . . and a free period after break . . . and after lunch . . . excellent!"
"I thought you’d get that, well done,” she called over, pointing at the Captain’s badge on Harry’s chest. “Tell me when you call trials!"
"Don’t be stupid,” said Harry, “you don’t need to try out, I’ve watched you play for five years. . . ."
"You mustn’t start off like that,” she said warningly. “For all you know, there’s someone much better than me out there. Good teams have been ruined before now because Captains just kept playing the old faces, or letting in their friends. . . ."
"We got so much homework for Runes,” she said anxiously, when Harry and Ron joined her. “A fifteen-inch essay, two translations, and I’ve got to read these by Wednesday!"
"Shame,"
"You wait,” she said resentfully. “I bet Snape gives us loads."
"Inside,"
"I have not asked you to take out your books,” said Snape, closing the door and moving to face the class from behind his desk; Hermione hastily dropped her copy of Confronting the Faceless back into her bag and stowed it under her chair. “I wish to speak to you, and I want your fullest attention."
"You have had five teachers in this subject so far, I believe."
"Naturally, these teachers will all have had their own methods and priorities. Given this confusion I am surprised so many of you scraped an O.W.L. in this subject. I shall be even more surprised if all of you manage to keep up with the N.E.W.T. work, which will be much more advanced."
"The Dark Arts,” said Snape, “are many, varied, ever-changing, and eternal. Fighting them is like fighting a many-headed monster, which, each time a neck is severed, sprouts a head even fiercer and cleverer than before. You are fighting that which is unfixed, mutating, indestructible."
"Your defenses,” said Snape, a little louder, “must therefore be as flexible and inventive as the arts you seek to undo. These pictures” — he indicated a few of them as he swept past — “give a fair representation of what happens to those who suffer, for instance, the Cruciatus Curse” — he waved a hand toward a witch who was clearly shrieking in agony — “feel the Dementor’s Kiss” — a wizard lying huddled and blank-eyed, slumped against a wall — “or provoke the aggression of the Inferius"
"Has an Inferius been seen, then?” said Parvati Patil in a high-pitched voice. “Is it definite, is he using them?"
"The Dark Lord has used Inferi in the past,” said Snape, “which means you would be well-advised to assume he might use them again. Now . . ."
". . . you are, I believe, complete novices in the use of nonverbal spells. What is the advantage of a nonverbal spell?"
"Very well — Miss Granger?"
"Your adversary has no warning about what kind of magic you’re about to perform,” said Hermione, “which gives you a split-second advantage."
"An answer copied almost word for word from The Standard Book of Spells, Grade Six,” said Snape dismissively (over in the corner, Malfoy sniggered), “but correct in essentials. Yes, those who progress to using magic without shouting incantations gain an element of surprise in their spell-casting. Not all wizards can do this, of course; it is a question of concentration and mind power which some” — his gaze lingered maliciously upon Harry once more — “lack."
"You will now divide,” Snape went on, “into pairs. One partner will attempt to jinx the other without speaking. The other will attempt to repel the jinx in equal silence. Carry on."
"Pathetic, Weasley,” said Snape, after a while. “Here — let me show you —"
"Protego!"
"Do you remember me telling you we are practicing nonverbal spells, Potter?"
"Yes,"
"Yes, sir."
"There’s no need to call me ‘sir,’ Professor."
"Detention, Saturday night, my office,” said Snape. “I do not take cheek from anyone, Potter . . . not even ‘the Chosen One.’"
"That was brilliant, Harry!"
"You really shouldn’t have said it,” said Hermione, frowning at Ron. “What made you?"
"He tried to jinx me, in case you didn’t notice!” fumed Harry. “I had enough of that during those Occlumency lessons! Why doesn’t he use another guinea pig for a change? What’s Dumbledore playing at, anyway, letting him teach Defense? Did you hear him talking about the Dark Arts? He loves them! All that unfixed, indestructible stuff —"
"Well,” said Hermione, “I thought he sounded a bit like you."
"Like me?"
"Yes, when you were telling us what it’s like to face Voldemort. You said it wasn’t just memorizing a bunch of spells, you said it was just you and your brains and your guts — well, wasn’t that what Snape was saying? That it really comes down to being brave and quick-thinking?"
"Harry! Hey, Harry!"
"For you,” panted Sloper. “Listen, I heard you’re the new Captain. When’re you holding trials?"
"I’m not sure yet,” said Harry, thinking privately that Sloper would be very lucky to get back on the team. “I’ll let you know."
"Oh, right. I was hoping it’d be this weekend —"
"He enjoys Acid Pops?"
"It’s the password to get past the gargoyle outside his study,” said Harry in a low voice. “Ha! Snape’s not going to be pleased. . . . I won’t be able to do his detention!"
"Harry,” Ernie said portentously, holding out his hand as Harry approached, “didn’t get a chance to speak in Defense Against the Dark Arts this morning. Good lesson, I thought, but Shield Charms are old hat, of course, for us old D.A. lags . . . And how are you, Ron — Hermione?"
"fine,"
"Now then, now then, now then,” said Slughorn, whose massive outline was quivering through the many shimmering vapors. “Scales out, everyone, and potion kits, and don’t forget your copies of Advanced Potion-Making. . . ."
"Sir?"
"Harry, m’boy?"
"I haven’t got a book or scales or anything — nor’s Ron — we didn’t realize we’d be able to do the N.E.W.T., you see —"
"Ah, yes, Professor McGonagall did mention . . . not to worry, my dear boy, not to worry at all. You can use ingredients from the store cupboard today, and I’m sure we can lend you some scales, and we’ve got a small stock of old books here, they’ll do until you can write to Flourish and Blotts. . . ."
"Now then,” said Slughorn, returning to the front of the class and inflating his already bulging chest so that the buttons on his waistcoat threatened to burst off, “I’ve prepared a few potions for you to have a look at, just out of interest, you know. These are the kind of thing you ought to be able to make after completing your N.E.W.T.s. You ought to have heard of ’em, even if you haven’t made ’em yet. Anyone tell me what this one is?"
"It’s Veritaserum, a colorless, odorless potion that forces the drinker to tell the truth,"
"Very good, very good!” said Slughorn happily. “Now,” he continued, pointing at the cauldron nearest the Ravenclaw table, “this one here is pretty well known. . . . Featured in a few Ministry leaflets lately too . . . Who can — ?"
"It’s Polyjuice Potion, sir,"
"Excellent, excellent! Now, this one here . . . yes, my dear?"
"It’s Amortentia!"
"It is indeed. It seems almost foolish to ask,” said Slughorn, who was looking mightily impressed, “but I assume you know what it does?"
"It’s the most powerful love potion in the world!"
"Quite right! You recognized it, I suppose, by its distinctive mother-of-pearl sheen?"
"And the steam rising in characteristic spirals,” said Hermione enthusiastically, “and it’s supposed to smell differently to each of us, according to what attracts us, and I can smell freshly mown grass and new parchment and —"
"May I ask your name, my dear?"
"Hermione Granger, sir."
"Granger? Granger? Can you possibly be related to Hector Dagworth-Granger, who founded the Most Extraordinary Society of Potioneers?"
"No, I don’t think so, sir. I’m Muggle-born, you see."
"Oho! ‘One of my best friends is Muggle-born, and she’s the best in our year!’ I’m assuming this is the very friend of whom you spoke, Harry?"
"Yes, sir,"
"Well, well, take twenty well-earned points for Gryffindor, Miss Granger,"
"Did you really tell him I’m the best in the year? Oh, Harry!"
"Well, what’s so impressive about that?” whispered Ron, who for some reason looked annoyed. “You are the best in the year — I’d’ve told him so if he’d asked me!"
"shhing"
"Amortentia doesn’t really create love, of course. It is impossible to manufacture or imitate love. No, this will simply cause a powerful infatuation or obsession. It is probably the most dangerous and powerful potion in this room — oh yes,"
"And now,” said Slughorn, “it is time for us to start work."
"Sir, you haven’t told us what’s in this one,"
"Oho,” said Slughorn again. Harry was sure that Slughorn had not forgotten the potion at all, but had waited to be asked for dramatic effect. “Yes. That. Well, that one, ladies and gentlemen, is a most curious little potion called Felix Felicis. I take it,” he turned, smiling, to look at Hermione, who had let out an audible gasp, “that you know what Felix Felicis does, Miss Granger?"
"It’s liquid luck,” said Hermione excitedly. “It makes you lucky!"
"Quite right, take another ten points for Gryffindor. Yes, it’s a funny little potion, Felix Felicis,” said Slughorn. “Desperately tricky to make, and disastrous to get wrong. However, if brewed correctly, as this has been, you will find that all your endeavors tend to succeed . . . at least until the effects wear off."
"Why don’t people drink it all the time, sir?"
"Because if taken in excess, it causes giddiness, recklessness, and dangerous overconfidence,” said Slughorn. “Too much of a good thing, you know . . . highly toxic in large quantities. But taken sparingly, and very occasionally . . ."
"Have you ever taken it, sir?"
"Twice in my life,” said Slughorn. “Once when I was twenty-four, once when I was fifty-seven. Two tablespoonfuls taken with breakfast. Two perfect days."
"And that,” said Slughorn, apparently coming back to earth, “is what I shall be offering as a prize in this lesson."
"One tiny bottle of Felix Felicis,"
"So,” said Slughorn, suddenly brisk, “how are you to win my fabulous prize? Well, by turning to page ten of Advanced Potion-Making. We have a little over an hour left to us, which should be time for you to make a decent attempt at the Draught of Living Death. I know it is more complex than anything you have attempted before, and I do not expect a perfect potion from anybody. The person who does best, however, will win little Felix here. Off you go!"
"smooth, black currant–colored liquid"
"Sir, I think you knew my grandfather, Abraxas Malfoy?"
"Yes,” said Slughorn, without looking at Malfoy, “I was sorry to hear he had died, although of course it wasn’t unexpected, dragon pox at his age. . . ."
"Can I borrow your silver knife?"
"How are you doing that?"
"Add a clockwise stir —"
"No, no, the book says counterclockwise!"
"And time’s . . . up!” called Slughorn. “Stop stirring, please!"
"The clear winner!” he cried to the dungeon. “Excellent, excellent, Harry! Good lord, it’s clear you’ve inherited your mother’s talent. She was a dab hand at Potions, Lily was! Here you are, then, here you are — one bottle of Felix Felicis, as promised, and use it well!"
"How did you do that?"
"Got lucky, I suppose,"
"I s’pose you think I cheated?"
"Well, it wasn’t exactly your own work, was it?"
"He only followed different instructions to ours,” said Ron. “Could’ve been a catastrophe, couldn’t it? But he took a risk and it paid off.” He heaved a sigh. “Slughorn could’ve handed me that book, but no, I get the one no one’s ever written on. Puked on, by the look of page fifty-two, but —"
"Hang on,” said a voice close by Harry’s left ear and he caught a sudden waft of that flowery smell he had picked up in Slughorn’s dungeon. He looked around and saw that Ginny had joined them. “Did I hear right? You’ve been taking orders from something someone wrote in a book, Harry?"
"It’s nothing,” he said reassuringly, lowering his voice. “It’s not like, you know, Riddle’s diary. It’s just an old textbook someone’s scribbled on."
"But you’re doing what it says?"
"I just tried a few of the tips written in the margins, honestly, Ginny, there’s nothing funny —"
"Ginny’s got a point,” said Hermione, perking up at once. “We ought to check that there’s nothing odd about it. I mean, all these funny instructions, who knows?"
"Hey!"
"Specialis Revelio!"
"Finished?” said Harry irritably. “Or d’you want to wait and see if it does a few backflips?"
"It seems all right,” said Hermione, still staring at the book suspiciously. “I mean, it really does seem to be . . . just a textbook."
"Good. Then I’ll have it back,"
"official"
"Or herself,” said Hermione irritably, overhearing Harry pointing some of these out to Ron in the common room on Saturday evening. “It might have been a girl. I think the handwriting looks more like a girl’s than a boy’s."
"The Half-Blood Prince, he was called,” Harry said. “How many girls have been Princes?"
"It’s five to eight, I’d better go, I’ll be late for Dumbledore."
"Ooooh!” gasped Hermione, looking up at once. “Good luck! We’ll wait up, we want to hear what he teaches you!"
"Hope it goes okay,"
"Two of spades: conflict,” she murmured, as she passed the place where Harry crouched, hidden. “Seven of spades: an ill omen. Ten of spades: violence. Knave of spades: a dark young man, possibly troubled, one who dislikes the questioner —"
"Well, that can’t be right,"
"Acid Pops,"
"Come in,"
"Good evening, sir,"
"Ah, good evening, Harry. Sit down,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “I hope you’ve had an enjoyable first week back at school?"
"Yes, thanks, sir,"
"You must have been busy, a detention under your belt already!"
"Er,"
"I have arranged with Professor Snape that you will do your detention next Saturday instead."
"Right,"
"So, Harry,” said Dumbledore, in a businesslike voice. “You have been wondering, I am sure, what I have planned for you during these — for want of a better word — lessons?"
"Yes, sir."
"Well, I have decided that it is time, now that you know what prompted Lord Voldemort to try and kill you fifteen years ago, for you to be given certain information."
"You said, at the end of last term, you were going to tell me everything,” said Harry. It was hard to keep a note of accusation from his voice. “Sir,"
"And so I did,” said Dumbledore placidly. “I told you everything I know. From this point forth, we shall be leaving the firm foundation of fact and journeying together through the murky marshes of memory into thickets of wildest guesswork. From here on in, Harry, I may be as woefully wrong as Humphrey Belcher, who believed the time was ripe for a cheese cauldron."
"But you think you’re right?"
"Naturally I do, but as I have already proven to you, I make mistakes like the next man. In fact, being — forgive me — rather cleverer than most men, my mistakes tend to be correspondingly huger."
"Sir,” said Harry tentatively, “does what you’re going to tell me have anything to do with the prophecy? Will it help me . . . survive?"
"It has a very great deal to do with the prophecy,” said Dumbledore, as casually as if Harry had asked him about the next day’s weather, “and I certainly hope that it will help you to survive."
"You look worried."
"This time, you enter the Pensieve with me . . . and, even more unusually, with permission."
"Where are we going, sir?"
"For a trip down Bob Ogden’s memory lane,"
"Who was Bob Ogden?"
"He was employed by the Department of Magical Law Enforcement,” said Dumbledore. “He died some time ago, but not before I had tracked him down and persuaded him to confide these recollections to me. We are about to accompany him on a visit he made in the course of his duties. If you will stand, Harry . . ."
"Shall — shall I, sir?"
"No matter, Harry —"
"Sir — how did you injure your hand?"
"Now is not the moment for that story, Harry. Not yet. We have an appointment with Bob Ogden."
"After you,"
"You’re not welcome."
"Er — good morning. I’m from the Ministry of Magic —"
"You’re not welcome."
"Er — I’m sorry — I don’t understand you,"
"You understand him, I’m sure, Harry?"
"Yes, of course,” said Harry, slightly nonplussed. “Why can’t Ogden — ?"
"He’s speaking Parseltongue?"
"Very good,"
"Now, look —"
"Morfin!"
"Ministry, is it?"
"Correct!” said Ogden angrily, dabbing his face. “And you, I take it, are Mr. Gaunt?"
"S’right,” said Gaunt. “Got you in the face, did he?"
"Yes, he did!"
"Should’ve made your presence known, shouldn’t you?” said Gaunt aggressively. “This is private property. Can’t just walk in here and not expect my son to defend himself."
"Defend himself against what, man?"
"Busybodies. Intruders. Muggles and filth."
"Get in the house. Don’t argue."
"It’s your son I’m here to see, Mr. Gaunt,” said Ogden, as he mopped the last of the pus from the front of his coat. “That was Morfin, wasn’t it?"
"Ar, that was Morfin,” said the old man indifferently. “Are you pure-blood?"
"That’s neither here nor there,” said Ogden coldly, and Harry felt his respect for Ogden rise. Apparently Gaunt felt rather differently. He squinted into Ogden’s face and muttered, in what was clearly supposed to be an offensive tone, “Now I come to think about it, I’ve seen noses like yours down in the village."
"I don’t doubt it, if your son’s been let loose on them,” said Ogden. “Perhaps we could continue this discussion inside?"
"Inside?"
"Yes, Mr. Gaunt. I’ve already told you. I’m here about Morfin. We sent an owl —"
"I’ve no use for owls,” said Gaunt. “I don’t open letters."
"Then you can hardly complain that you get no warning of visitors,” said Ogden tartly. “I am here following a serious breach of Wizarding law, which occurred here in the early hours of this morning —"
"All right, all right, all right!” bellowed Gaunt. “Come in the bleeding house, then, and much good it’ll do you!"
"M’daughter, Merope,"
"Good morning,"
"Well, Mr. Gaunt,” said Ogden, “to get straight to the point, we have reason to believe that your son, Morfin, performed magic in front of a Muggle late last night."
"Pick it up!” Gaunt bellowed at her. “That’s it, grub on the floor like some filthy Muggle, what’s your wand for, you useless sack of muck?"
"Mr. Gaunt, please!"
"Mend it, you pointless lump, mend it!"
"Reparo."
"Lucky the nice man from the Ministry’s here, isn’t it? Perhaps he’ll take you off my hands, perhaps he doesn’t mind dirty Squibs. . . ."
"Mr. Gaunt,” Ogden began again, “as I’ve said: the reason for my visit —"
"I heard you the first time!” snapped Gaunt. “And so what? Morfin gave a Muggle a bit of what was coming to him — what about it, then?"
"Morfin has broken Wizarding law,"
"‘Morfin has broken Wizarding law.’” Gaunt imitated Ogden’s voice, making it pompous and singsong. Morfin cackled again. “He taught a filthy Muggle a lesson, that’s illegal now, is it?"
"Yes,” said Ogden. “I’m afraid it is."
"What’s that, then, his sentence?"
"It is a summons to the Ministry for a hearing —"
"Summons! Summons? Who do you think you are, summoning my son anywhere?"
"I’m Head of the Magical Law Enforcement Squad,"
"And you think we’re scum, do you?” screamed Gaunt, advancing on Ogden now, with a dirty yellow-nailed finger pointing at his chest. “Scum who’ll come running when the Ministry tells ’em to? Do you know who you’re talking to, you filthy little Mudblood, do you?"
"I was under the impression that I was speaking to Mr. Gaunt,"
"That’s right!” roared Gaunt. For a moment, Harry thought Gaunt was making an obscene hand gesture, but then realized that he was showing Ogden the ugly, black-stoned ring he was wearing on his middle finger, waving it before Ogden’s eyes. “See this? See this? Know what it is? Know where it came from? Centuries it’s been in our family, that’s how far back we go, and pure-blood all the way! Know how much I’ve been offered for this, with the Peverell coat of arms engraved on the stone?"
"I’ve really no idea,” said Ogden, blinking as the ring sailed within an inch of his nose, “and it’s quite beside the point, Mr. Gaunt. Your son has committed —"
"See this?"
"I see it, I see it!"
"Slytherin’s!” yelled Gaunt. “Salazar Slytherin’s! We’re his last living descendants, what do you say to that, eh?"
"Mr. Gaunt, your daughter!"
"So!” said Gaunt triumphantly, as though he had just proved a complicated point beyond all possible dispute. “Don’t you go talking to us as if we’re dirt on your shoes! Generations of purebloods, wizards all — more than you can say, I don’t doubt!"
"Mr. Gaunt,” said Ogden doggedly, “I am afraid that neither your ancestors nor mine have anything to do with the matter in hand. I am here because of Morfin, Morfin and the Muggle he accosted late last night. Our information” — he glanced down at his scroll of parchment — “is that Morfin performed a jinx or hex on the said Muggle, causing him to erupt in highly painful hives."
"Be quiet, boy,"
"And so what if he did, then?” Gaunt said defiantly to Ogden. “I expect you’ve wiped the Muggle’s filthy face clean for him, and his memory to boot —"
"That’s hardly the point, is it, Mr. Gaunt?” said Ogden. “This was an unprovoked attack on a defenseless —"
"Ar, I had you marked out as a Muggle-lover the moment I saw you,"
"This discussion is getting us nowhere,” said Ogden firmly. “It is clear from your son’s attitude that he feels no remorse for his actions.” He glanced down at his scroll of parchment again. “Morfin will attend a hearing on the fourteenth of September to answer the charges of using magic in front of a Muggle and causing harm and distress to that same Mugg —"
"My God, what an eyesore!” rang out a girl’s voice, as clearly audible through the open window as if she had stood in the room beside them. “Couldn’t your father have that hovel cleared away, Tom?"
"It’s not ours,” said a young man’s voice. “Everything on the other side of the valley belongs to us, but that cottage belongs to an old tramp called Gaunt, and his children. The son’s quite mad, you should hear some of the stories they tell in the village —"
"Keep your seat,"
"Tom,” said the girl’s voice again, now so close they were clearly right beside the house, “I might be wrong — but has somebody nailed a snake to that door?"
"Good lord, you’re right!” said the man’s voice. “That’ll be the son, I told you he’s not right in the head. Don’t look at it, Cecilia, darling."
"‘Darling,’” whispered Morfin in Parseltongue, looking at his sister. “‘Darling,’ he called her. So he wouldn’t have you anyway."
"What’s that?” said Gaunt sharply, also in Parseltongue, looking from his son to his daughter. “What did you say, Morfin?"
"She likes looking at that Muggle,” said Morfin, a vicious expression on his face as he stared at his sister, who now looked terrified. “Always in the garden when he passes, peering through the hedge at him, isn’t she? And last night —"
"Hanging out of the window waiting for him to ride home, wasn’t she?"
"Hanging out of the window to look at a Muggle?"
"Is it true?” said Gaunt in a deadly voice, advancing a step or two toward the terrified girl. “My daughter — pure-blooded descendant of Salazar Slytherin — hankering after a filthy, dirt-veined Muggle?"
"But I got him, Father!” cackled Morfin. “I got him as he went by and he didn’t look so pretty with hives all over him, did he, Merope?"
"You disgusting little Squib, you filthy little blood traitor!"
"No!” at the same time; Ogden raised his wand and cried, “Relashio!"
"I think that will do, Harry,"
"What happened to the girl in the cottage?” said Harry at once, as Dumbledore lit extra lamps with a flick of his wand. “Merope, or whatever her name was?"
"Oh, she survived,” said Dumbledore, reseating himself behind his desk and indicating that Harry should sit down too. “Ogden Apparated back to the Ministry and returned with reinforcements within fifteen minutes. Morfin and his father attempted to fight, but both were overpowered, removed from the cottage, and subsequently convicted by the Wizengamot. Morfin, who already had a record of Muggle attacks, was sentenced to three years in Azkaban. Marvolo, who had injured several Ministry employees in addition to Ogden, received six months."
"Marvolo?"
"That’s right,” said Dumbledore, smiling in approval. “I am glad to see you’re keeping up."
"That old man was — ?"
"Voldemort’s grandfather, yes,” said Dumbledore. “Marvolo, his son, Morfin, and his daughter, Merope, were the last of the Gaunts, a very ancient Wizarding family noted for a vein of instability and violence that flourished through the generations due to their habit of marrying their own cousins. Lack of sense coupled with a great liking for grandeur meant that the family gold was squandered several generations before Marvolo was born. He, as you saw, was left in squalor and poverty, with a very nasty temper, a fantastic amount of arrogance and pride, and a couple of family heirlooms that he treasured just as much as his son, and rather more than his daughter."
"So Merope,” said Harry, leaning forward in his chair and staring at Dumbledore, “so Merope was . . . Sir, does that mean she was . . . Voldemort’s mother?"
"It does,” said Dumbledore. “And it so happens that we also had a glimpse of Voldemort’s father. I wonder whether you noticed?"
"The Muggle Morfin attacked? The man on the horse?"
"Very good indeed,” said Dumbledore, beaming. “Yes, that was Tom Riddle senior, the handsome Muggle who used to go riding past the Gaunt cottage and for whom Merope Gaunt cherished a secret, burning passion."
"And they ended up married?"
"I think you are forgetting,"
"Can you not think of any measure Merope could have taken to make Tom Riddle forget his Muggle companion, and fall in love with her instead?"
"The Imperius Curse?” Harry suggested. “Or a love potion?"
"From all that I have been able to discover, he never mentioned her name or existence from that time forth. The shock of her desertion may have contributed to his early death — or perhaps he had simply never learned to feed himself. Azkaban had greatly weakened Marvolo, and he did not live to see Morfin return to the cottage."
"And Merope? She . . . she died, didn’t she? Wasn’t Voldemort brought up in an orphanage?"
"Yes, indeed,” said Dumbledore. “We must do a certain amount of guessing here, although I do not think it is difficult to deduce what happened. You see, within a few months of their runaway marriage, Tom Riddle reappeared at the manor house in Little Hangleton without his wife. The rumor flew around the neighborhood that he was talking of being ‘hoodwinked’ and ‘taken in.’ What he meant, I am sure, is that he had been under an enchantment that had now lifted, though I daresay he did not dare use those precise words for fear of being thought insane. When they heard what he was saying, however, the villagers guessed that Merope had lied to Tom Riddle, pretending that she was going to have his baby, and that he had married her for this reason."
"But she did have his baby."
"But not until a year after they were married. Tom Riddle left her while she was still pregnant."
"What went wrong?” asked Harry. “Why did the love potion stop working?"
"Again, this is guesswork,” said Dumbledore, “but I believe that Merope, who was deeply in love with her husband, could not bear to continue enslaving him by magical means. I believe that she made the choice to stop giving him the potion. Perhaps, besotted as she was, she had convinced herself that he would by now have fallen in love with her in return. Perhaps she thought he would stay for the baby’s sake. If so, she was wrong on both counts. He left her, never saw her again, and never troubled to discover what became of his son."
"I think that will do for tonight, Harry,"
"Yes, sir,"
"Sir . . . is it important to know all this about Voldemort’s past?"
"Very important, I think,"
"And it . . . it’s got something to do with the prophecy?"
"It has everything to do with the prophecy."
"Right,"
"Sir, am I allowed to tell Ron and Hermione everything you’ve told me?"
"Yes, I think Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger have proved themselves trustworthy. But Harry, I am going to ask you to ask them not to repeat any of this to anybody else. It would not be a good idea if word got around how much I know, or suspect, about Lord Voldemort’s secrets."
"No, sir, I’ll make sure it’s just Ron and Hermione. Good night."
"Sir,” said Harry, staring at it. “That ring —"
"Yes?"
"You were wearing it when we visited Professor Slughorn that night."
"So I was,"
"But isn’t it . . . sir, isn’t it the same ring Marvolo Gaunt showed Ogden?"
"The very same."
"But how come — ? Have you always had it?"
"No, I acquired it very recently,” said Dumbledore. “A few days before I came to fetch you from your aunt and uncle’s, in fact."
"That would be around the time you injured your hand, then, sir?"
"Around that time, yes, Harry."
"Sir, how exactly — ?"
"Too late, Harry! You shall hear the story another time. Good night."
"Good night, sir."
"We’ve got to go and explain,"
"We’ve got Quidditch tryouts this morning!” said Ron. “And we’re supposed to be practicing that Aguamenti Charm from Flitwick! Anyway, explain what? How are we going to tell him we hated his stupid subject?"
"We didn’t hate it!"
"Speak for yourself, I haven’t forgotten the skrewts,” said Ron darkly. “And I’m telling you now, we’ve had a narrow escape. You didn’t hear him going on about his gormless brother — we’d have been teaching Grawp how to tie his shoelaces if we’d stayed."
"I hate not talking to Hagrid,"
"We’ll go down after Quidditch,” Harry assured her. He too was missing Hagrid, although like Ron he thought that they were better off without Grawp in their lives. “But trials might take all morning, the number of people who have applied.” He felt slightly nervous at confronting the first hurdle of his Captaincy. “I dunno why the team’s this popular all of a sudden."
"Oh, come on, Harry,” said Hermione, suddenly impatient. “It’s not Quidditch that’s popular, it’s you! You’ve never been more interesting, and frankly, you’ve never been more fanciable."
"Everyone knows you’ve been telling the truth now, don’t they? The whole Wizarding world has had to admit that you were right about Voldemort being back and that you really have fought him twice in the last two years and escaped both times. And now they’re calling you ‘the Chosen One’ — well, come on, can’t you see why people are fascinated by you?"
"And you’ve been through all that persecution from the Ministry when they were trying to make out you were unstable and a liar. You can still see the marks on the back of your hand where that evil woman made you write with your own blood, but you stuck to your story anyway. . . ."
"You can still see where those brains got hold of me in the Ministry, look,"
"And it doesn’t hurt that you’ve grown about a foot over the summer either,"
"I’m tall,"
"Ha!"
"Oh good,” said Hermione, delighted. “Now you can give that graffitied copy back."
"Are you mad?” said Harry. “I’m keeping it! Look, I’ve thought it out —"
"Diffindo!” The cover fell off. He did the same thing with the brand-new book (Hermione looked scandalized). He then swapped the covers, tapped each, and said, “Reparo!"
"I’ll give Slughorn back the new one, he can’t complain, it cost nine Galleons."
"Anyone we know dead?"
"No, but there have been more dementor attacks,” said Hermione. “And an arrest."
"Excellent, who?"
"Stan Shunpike,"
"What?"
"‘Stanley Shunpike, conductor on the popular Wizarding conveyance the Knight Bus, has been arrested on suspicion of Death Eater activity. Mr. Shunpike, 21, was taken into custody late last night after a raid on his Clapham home . . .’"
"Stan Shunpike, a Death Eater?” said Harry, remembering the spotty youth he had first met three years before. “No way!"
"He might have been put under the Imperius Curse,” said Ron reasonably. “You never can tell."
"It doesn’t look like it,” said Hermione, who was still reading. “It says here he was arrested after he was overheard talking about the Death Eaters’ secret plans in a pub.” She looked up with a troubled expression on her face. “If he was under the Imperius Curse, he’d hardly stand around gossiping about their plans, would he?"
"It sounds like he was trying to make out he knew more than he did,” said Ron. “Isn’t he the one who claimed he was going to become Minister of Magic when he was trying to chat up those veela?"
"Yeah, that’s him,” said Harry. “I dunno what they’re playing at, taking Stan seriously."
"They probably want to look as though they’re doing something,” said Hermione, frowning. “People are terrified — you know the Patil twins’ parents want them to go home? And Eloise Midgen has already been withdrawn. Her father picked her up last night."
"What!” said Ron, goggling at Hermione. “But Hogwarts is safer than their homes, bound to be! We’ve got Aurors, and all those extra protective spells, and we’ve got Dumbledore!"
"I don’t think we’ve got him all the time,” said Hermione very quietly, glancing toward the staff table over the top of the Prophet. “Haven’t you noticed? His seat’s been empty as often as Hagrid’s this past week."
"I think he’s left the school to do something with the Order,” said Hermione in a low voice. “I mean . . . it’s all looking serious, isn’t it?"
"We met on the train, in old Sluggy’s compartment,” he said confidently, stepping out of the crowd to shake Harry’s hand. “Cormac McLaggen, Keeper."
"You didn’t try out last year, did you?"
"I was in the hospital wing when they held the trials,” said McLaggen, with something of a swagger. “Ate a pound of doxy eggs for a bet."
"Right,” said Harry. “Well . . . if you wait over there . . ."
"old Sluggy’s"
"If there’s anyone else here who’s not from Gryffindor,” roared Harry, who was starting to get seriously annoyed, “leave now, please!"
"That’s my final decision and if you don’t get out of the way for the Keepers I’ll hex you,"
"Good luck!"
"His sister didn’t really try,” said McLaggen menacingly. There was a vein pulsing in his temple like the one Harry had often admired in Uncle Vernon’s. “She gave him an easy save."
"Rubbish,” said Harry coldly. “That was the one he nearly missed."
"Give me another go."
"No,” said Harry. “You’ve had your go. You saved four. Ron saved five. Ron’s Keeper, he won it fair and square. Get out of my way."
"Well done,” he croaked. “You flew really well —"
"You did brilliantly, Ron!"
"I thought I was going to miss that fourth penalty,” Ron was saying happily. “Tricky shot from Demelza, did you see, had a bit of spin on it —"
"Yes, yes, you were magnificent,"
"I was better than that McLaggen anyway,” said Ron in a highly satisfied voice. “Did you see him lumbering off in the wrong direction on his fifth? Looked like he’d been Confunded. . . ."
"Oh dear,” said Hermione nervously. “He’s still a bit scary, isn’t he?"
"Come off it, you’ve ridden him, haven’t you?"
"How are you?” Harry asked him in a low voice, moving forward to stroke the feathery head. “Missing him? But you’re okay here with Hagrid, aren’t you?"
"Oi!"
"Git away from him! He’ll have yer fingers — oh. It’s yeh lot."
"Oh dear!"
"Don’t worry about it,"
"Hagrid! Open up, we want to talk to you!"
"If you don’t open the door, we’ll blast it open!"
"Harry!” said Hermione, sounding shocked. “You can’t possibly —"
"Yeah, I can!” said Harry. “Stand back —"
"I’m a teacher!” he roared at Harry. “A teacher, Potter! How dare yeh threaten ter break down my door!"
"I’m sorry, sir,"
"Since when have yeh called me ‘sir’?"
"Since when have you called me ‘Potter’?"
"Oh, very clever,” growled Hagrid. “Very amusin’. That’s me outsmarted, innit? All righ’, come in then, yeh ungrateful little . . ."
"Well?” said Hagrid grumpily, as Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down around his enormous wooden table, Fang laying his head immediately upon Harry’s knee and drooling all over his robes. “What’s this? Feelin’ sorry for me? Reckon I’m lonely or summat?"
"No,” said Harry at once. “We wanted to see you."
"We’ve missed you!"
"Missed me, have yeh?” snorted Hagrid. “Yeah. Righ’."
"Hagrid,” said Hermione timidly, when he joined them at the table and started peeling his potatoes with a brutality that suggested that each tuber had done him a great personal wrong, “we really wanted to carry on with Care of Magical Creatures, you know."
"We did!” said Hermione. “But none of us could fit it into our schedules!"
"Yeah. Righ’,"
"What are they, Hagrid?"
"Jus’ giant grubs,"
"And they grow into . . . ?"
"They won’ grow inter nuthin’,” said Hagrid. “I got ’em ter feed ter Aragog."
"Hagrid!” cried Hermione, leaping up, hurrying around the table the long way to avoid the barrel of maggots, and putting an arm around his shaking shoulders. “What is it?"
"It’s . . . him . . .” gulped Hagrid, his beetle-black eyes streaming as he mopped his face with his apron. “It’s . . . Aragog. . . . I think he’s dyin’. . . . He got ill over the summer an’ he’s not gettin’ better. . . . I don’ know what I’ll do if he . . . if he . . . We’ve bin tergether so long. . . ."
"Is there — is there anything we can do?"
"I don’ think there is, Hermione,” choked Hagrid, attempting to stem the flood of his tears. “See, the rest o’ the tribe . . . Aragog’s family . . . they’re gettin’ a bit funny now he’s ill . . . bit restive . . ."
"Yeah, I think we saw a bit of that side of them,"
". . . I don’ reckon it’d be safe fer anyone but me ter go near the colony at the mo’,” Hagrid finished, blowing his nose hard on his apron and looking up. “But thanks fer offerin’, Hermione. . . . It means a lot. . . ."
"Ar, I always knew yeh’d find it hard ter squeeze me inter yer timetables,” he said gruffly, pouring them more tea. “Even if yeh applied fer Time-Turners —"
"We couldn’t have done,” said Hermione. “We smashed the entire stock of Ministry Time-Turners when we were there last summer. It was in the Daily Prophet."
"Ar, well then,” said Hagrid. “There’s no way yeh could’ve done it. . . . I’m sorry I’ve bin — yeh know — I’ve jus’ bin worried abou’ Aragog . . . an’ I did wonder whether, if Professor Grubbly-Plank had bin teachin’ yeh —"
"I’m starving,” said Harry, once the door had closed behind them and they were hurrying through the dark and deserted grounds; he had abandoned the rock cake after an ominous cracking noise from one of his back teeth. “And I’ve got that detention with Snape tonight, I haven’t got much time for dinner. . . ."
"What?"
"If you ask me,” said Harry quietly, “McLaggen looks like he was Confunded this morning. And he was standing right in front of where you were sitting."
"Oh, all right then, I did it,” she whispered. “But you should have heard the way he was talking about Ron and Ginny! Anyway, he’s got a nasty temper, you saw how he reacted when he didn’t get in — you wouldn’t have wanted someone like that on the team."
"No,” said Harry. “No, I suppose that’s true. But wasn’t that dishonest, Hermione? I mean, you’re a prefect, aren’t you?"
"Oh, be quiet,"
"What are you two doing?"
"Nothing,"
"Harry, Harry, just the man I was hoping to see!” he boomed genially, twiddling the ends of his walrus mustache and puffing out his enormous belly. “I was hoping to catch you before dinner! What do you say to a spot of supper tonight in my rooms instead? We’re having a little party, just a few rising stars, I’ve got McLaggen coming and Zabini, the charming Melinda Bobbin — I don’t know whether you know her? Her family owns a large chain of apothecaries — and, of course, I hope very much that Miss Granger will favor me by coming too."
"I can’t come, Professor,” said Harry at once. “I’ve got a detention with Professor Snape."
"Oh dear!” said Slughorn, his face falling comically. “Dear, dear, I was counting on you, Harry! Well, now, I’ll just have to have a word with Severus and explain the situation. I’m sure I’ll be able to persuade him to postpone your detention. Yes, I’ll see you both later!"
"He’s got no chance of persuading Snape,” said Harry, the moment Slughorn was out of earshot. “This detention’s already been postponed once; Snape did it for Dumbledore, but he won’t do it for anyone else."
"Oh, I wish you could come, I don’t want to go on my own!"
"I doubt you’ll be alone, Ginny’ll probably be invited,"
"Anything new?"
"Not really . . .” Hermione had opened the newspaper and was scanning the inside pages. “Oh, look, your dad’s in here, Ron — he’s all right!” she added quickly, for Ron had looked around in alarm. “It just says he’s been to visit the Malfoys’ house. ‘This second search of the Death Eater’s residence does not seem to have yielded any results. Arthur Weasley of the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Objects said that his team had been acting upon a confidential tip-off.’"
"Yeah, mine!” said Harry. “I told him at King’s Cross about Malfoy and that thing he was trying to get Borgin to fix! Well, if it’s not at their house, he must have brought whatever it is to Hogwarts with him —"
"But how can he have done, Harry?” said Hermione, putting down the newspaper with a surprised look. “We were all searched when we arrived, weren’t we?"
"Were you?” said Harry, taken aback. “I wasn’t!"
"Oh no, of course you weren’t, I forgot you were late. . . . Well, Filch ran over all of us with Secrecy Sensors when we got into the entrance hall. Any Dark object would have been found, I know for a fact Crabbe had a shrunken head confiscated. So you see, Malfoy can’t have brought in anything dangerous!"
"Someone’s sent it to him by owl, then,” he said. “His mother or someone."
"All the owls are being checked too,” said Hermione. “Filch told us so when he was jabbing those Secrecy Sensors everywhere he could reach."
"Can you think of any way Malfoy — ?"
"Oh, drop it, Harry,"
"Listen, it’s not my fault Slughorn invited Hermione and me to his stupid party, neither of us wanted to go, you know!"
"Well, as I’m not invited to any parties,” said Ron, getting to his feet again, “I think I’ll go to bed."
"Harry?” said the new Chaser, Demelza Robins, appearing suddenly at his shoulder. “I’ve got a message for you."
"From Professor Slughorn?"
"No . . . from Professor Snape,” said Demelza. Harry’s heart sank. “He says you’re to come to his office at half past eight tonight to do your detention — er — no matter how many party invitations you’ve received. And he wanted you to know you’ll be sorting out rotten flobberworms from good ones, to use in Potions and — and he says there’s no need to bring protective gloves."
"Right,” said Harry grimly. “Thanks a lot, Demelza."
"nonverbal."
"Aaaaaaaargh!"
"Sorry!” yelled Harry, as Dean and Seamus roared with laughter, and Neville picked himself up from the floor, having fallen out of bed. “Hang on — I’ll let you down —"
"Sorry,"
"Tomorrow,” said Ron in a muffled voice, “I’d rather you set the alarm clock."
". . . and then there was another flash of light and I landed on the bed again!"
"Was this spell, by any chance, another one from that potion book of yours?"
"Always jump to the worst conclusion, don’t you?"
"Was it?"
"Well . . . yeah, it was, but so what?"
"So you just decided to try out an unknown, handwritten incantation and see what would happen?"
"Why does it matter if it’s handwritten?"
"Because it’s probably not Ministry of Magic–approved,” said Hermione. “And also,” she added, as Harry and Ron rolled their eyes, “because I’m starting to think this Prince character was a bit dodgy."
"It was a laugh!” said Ron, upending a ketchup bottle over his sausages. “Just a laugh, Hermione, that’s all!"
"Dangling people upside down by the ankle?” said Hermione. “Who puts their time and energy into making up spells like that?"
"Fred and George,” said Ron, shrugging, “it’s their kind of thing. And, er —"
"My dad,"
"What?"
"My dad used this spell,” said Harry. “I — Lupin told me."
"Maybe your dad did use it, Harry,” said Hermione, “but he’s not the only one. We’ve seen a whole bunch of people use it, in case you’ve forgotten. Dangling people in the air. Making them float along, asleep, helpless."
"That was different,” he said robustly. “They were abusing it. Harry and his dad were just having a laugh. You don’t like the Prince, Hermione,” he added, pointing a sausage at her sternly, “because he’s better than you at Potions —"
"It’s got nothing to do with that!” said Hermione, her cheeks reddening. “I just think it’s very irresponsible to start performing spells when you don’t even know what they’re for, and stop talking about ‘the Prince’ as if it’s his title, I bet it’s just a stupid nickname, and it doesn’t seem as though he was a very nice person to me!"
"I don’t see where you get that from,” said Harry heatedly. “If he’d been a budding Death Eater he wouldn’t have been boasting about being ‘half-blood,’ would he?"
"The Death Eaters can’t all be pure-blood, there aren’t enough pure-blood wizards left,” said Hermione stubbornly. “I expect most of them are half-bloods pretending to be pure. It’s only Muggle-borns they hate, they’d be quite happy to let you and Ron join up."
"There is no way they’d let me be a Death Eater!” said Ron indignantly, a bit of sausage flying off the fork he was now brandishing at Hermione and hitting Ernie Macmillan on the head. “My whole family are blood traitors! That’s as bad as Muggle-borns to Death Eaters!"
"And they’d love to have me,” said Harry sarcastically. “We’d be best pals if they didn’t keep trying to do me in."
"Hey, Harry, I’m supposed to give you this."
"Thanks, Ginny . . . It’s Dumbledore’s next lesson!” Harry told Ron and Hermione, pulling open the parchment and quickly reading its contents. “Monday evening!” He felt suddenly light and happy. “Want to join us in Hogsmeade, Ginny?"
"I’m going with Dean — might see you there,"
"What does it matter if we’re smuggling Dark stuff OUT?” demanded Ron, eyeing the long thin Secrecy Sensor with apprehension. “Surely you ought to be checking what we bring back IN?"
"Thank God,” shivered Ron as they were enveloped by warm, toffee-scented air. “Let’s stay here all afternoon."
"Harry, m’boy!"
"Oh no,"
"Harry, that’s three of my little suppers you’ve missed now!” said Slughorn, poking him genially in the chest. “It won’t do, m’boy, I’m determined to have you! Miss Granger loves them, don’t you?"
"Yes,” said Hermione helplessly, “they’re really —"
"So why don’t you come along, Harry?"
"Well, I’ve had Quidditch practice, Professor,"
"Well, I certainly expect you to win your first match after all this hard work!” said Slughorn. “But a little recreation never hurt anybody. Now, how about Monday night, you can’t possibly want to practice in this weather. . . ."
"I can’t, Professor, I’ve got — er — an appointment with Professor Dumbledore that evening."
"Unlucky again!” cried Slughorn dramatically. “Ah, well . . . you can’t evade me forever, Harry!"
"I can’t believe you’ve wriggled out of another one,” said Hermione, shaking her head. “They’re not that bad, you know. . . . They’re even quite fun sometimes. . . .” But then she caught sight of Ron’s expression. “Oh, look — they’ve got deluxe sugar quills — those would last hours!"
"Let’s go to the Three Broomsticks,” said Harry. “It’ll be warm."
"Mundungus!"
"Oh, ’ello, ’Arry,” said Mundungus Fletcher, with a most unconvincing stab at airiness. “Well, don’t let me keep ya."
"Are you selling this stuff?"
"Oh, well, gotta scrape a living,” said Mundungus. “Gimme that!"
"Hang on,” Ron said slowly. “This looks familiar —"
"Thank you!” said Mundungus, snatching the goblet out of Ron’s hand and stuffing it back into the case. “Well, I’ll see you all — OUCH!"
"Harry!"
"You took that from Sirius’s house,” said Harry, who was almost nose to nose with Mundungus and was breathing in an unpleasant smell of old tobacco and spirits. “That had the Black family crest on it."
"I — no — what — ?"
"What did you do, go back the night he died and strip the place?"
"I — no —"
"Give it to me!"
"Harry, you mustn’t!"
"COME BACK, YOU THIEVING — !"
"There’s no point, Harry."
"Mundungus will probably be in London by now. There’s no point yelling."
"He’s nicked Sirius’s stuff! Nicked it!"
"Yes, but still,” said Tonks, who seemed perfectly untroubled by this piece of information. “You should get out of the cold."
"He was nicking Sirius’s stuff!"
"I know, Harry, but please don’t shout, people are staring,” whispered Hermione. “Go and sit down, I’ll get you a drink."
"Can’t the Order control Mundungus?” Harry demanded of the other two in a furious whisper. “Can’t they at least stop him stealing everything that’s not fixed down when he’s at headquarters?"
"Shh!” said Hermione desperately, looking around to make sure nobody was listening; there were a couple of warlocks sitting close by who were staring at Harry with great interest, and Zabini was lolling against a pillar not far away. “Harry, I’d be annoyed too, I know it’s your things he’s stealing —"
"Yeah, it’s my stuff!” he said. “No wonder he wasn’t pleased to see me! Well, I’m going to tell Dumbledore what’s going on, he’s the only one who scares Mundungus."
"Good idea,” whispered Hermione, clearly pleased that Harry was calming down. “Ron, what are you staring at?"
"Nothing,"
"I expect ‘nothing’s’ in the back getting more firewhisky,"
"Shall we call it a day and go back to school, then?"
"It’s nothing to do with you, Leanne!"
"Stay there!” he shouted at the others over the howling wind. “I’m going for help!"
"Hagrid!"
"Harry!” said Hagrid, who had sleet trapped in his eyebrows and beard, and was wearing his great, shaggy beaverskin coat. “Jus’ bin visitin’ Grawp, he’s comin’ on so well yeh wouldn’ —"
"Hagrid, someone’s hurt back there, or cursed, or something —"
"Wha’?"
"Someone’s been cursed!"
"Cursed? Who’s bin cursed — not Ron? Hermione?"
"No, it’s not them, it’s Katie Bell — this way . . ."
"Get back!” shouted Hagrid. “Lemme see her!"
"Something’s happened to her!” sobbed Leanne. “I don’t know what —"
"It’s Leanne, isn’t it?"
"Did it just happen all of a sudden, or — ?"
"It was when that package tore,"
"Don’t touch it!"
"I’ve seen that before,” said Harry, staring at the thing. “It was on display in Borgin and Burkes ages ago. The label said it was cursed. Katie must have touched it.” He looked up at Leanne, who had started to shake uncontrollably. “How did Katie get hold of this?"
"Well, that’s why we were arguing. She came back from the bathroom in the Three Broomsticks holding it, said it was a surprise for somebody at Hogwarts and she had to deliver it. She looked all funny when she said it. . . . Oh no, oh no, I bet she’d been Imperiused and I didn’t realize!"
"She didn’t say who’d given it to her, Leanne?"
"No . . . she wouldn’t tell me . . . and I said she was being stupid and not to take it up to school, but she just wouldn’t listen and . . . and then I tried to grab it from her . . . and — and —"
"We’d better get up to school,” said Hermione, her arm still around Leanne. “We’ll be able to find out how she is. Come on. . . ."
"We’ll need to show this to Madam Pomfrey,"
"Malfoy knows about this necklace. It was in a case at Borgin and Burkes four years ago, I saw him having a good look at it while I was hiding from him and his dad. This is what he was buying that day when we followed him! He remembered it and he went back for it!"
"I — I dunno, Harry,” said Ron hesitantly. “Loads of people go to Borgin and Burkes . . . and didn’t that girl say Katie got it in the girls’ bathroom?"
"She said she came back from the bathroom with it, she didn’t necessarily get it in the bathroom itself —"
"McGonagall!"
"Hagrid says you four saw what happened to Katie Bell — upstairs to my office at once, please! What’s that you’re holding, Potter?"
"It’s the thing she touched,"
"Good lord,” said Professor McGonagall, looking alarmed as she took the necklace from Harry. “No, no, Filch, they’re with me!” she added hastily, as Filch came shuffling eagerly across the entrance hall holding his Secrecy Sensor aloft. “Take this necklace to Professor Snape at once, but be sure not to touch it, keep it wrapped in the scarf!"
"Well?” she said sharply. “What happened?"
"All right,” said Professor McGonagall, not unkindly, “go up to the hospital wing, please, Leanne, and get Madam Pomfrey to give you something for shock."
"What happened when Katie touched the necklace?"
"She rose up in the air,” said Harry, before either Ron or Hermione could speak, “and then began to scream, and collapsed. Professor, can I see Professor Dumbledore, please?"
"The headmaster is away until Monday, Potter,"
"Away?"
"Yes, Potter, away!” said Professor McGonagall tartly. “But anything you have to say about this horrible business can be said to me, I’m sure!"
"I think Draco Malfoy gave Katie that necklace, Professor."
"That is a very serious accusation, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, after a shocked pause. “Do you have any proof?"
"No,” said Harry, “but . . ."
"Malfoy took something to Borgin and Burkes for repair?"
"No, Professor, he just wanted Borgin to tell him how to mend something, he didn’t have it with him. But that’s not the point, the thing is that he bought something at the same time, and I think it was that necklace —"
"You saw Malfoy leaving the shop with a similar package?"
"No, Professor, he told Borgin to keep it in the shop for him —"
"But Harry,” Hermione interrupted, “Borgin asked him if he wanted to take it with him, and Malfoy said no —"
"Because he didn’t want to touch it, obviously!"
"What he actually said was, ‘How would I look carrying that down the street?’"
"Well, he would look a bit of a prat carrying a necklace,"
"Oh, Ron,” said Hermione despairingly, “it would be all wrapped up, so he wouldn’t have to touch it, and quite easy to hide inside a cloak, so nobody would see it! I think whatever he reserved at Borgin and Burkes was noisy or bulky, something he knew would draw attention to him if he carried it down the street — and in any case,” she pressed on loudly, before Harry could interrupt, “I asked Borgin about the necklace, don’t you remember? When I went in to try and find out what Malfoy had asked him to keep, I saw it there. And Borgin just told me the price, he didn’t say it was already sold or anything —"
"Well, you were being really obvious, he realized what you were up to within about five seconds, of course he wasn’t going to tell you — anyway, Malfoy could’ve sent off for it since —"
"That’s enough!” said Professor McGonagall, as Hermione opened her mouth to retort, looking furious. “Potter, I appreciate you telling me this, but we cannot point the finger of blame at Mr. Malfoy purely because he visited the shop where this necklace might have been purchased. The same is probably true of hundreds of people —"
"— that’s what I said —"
"— and in any case, we have put stringent security measures in place this year. I do not believe that necklace can possibly have entered this school without our knowledge —"
"But —"
"— and what is more,” said Professor McGonagall, with an air of awful finality, “Mr. Malfoy was not in Hogsmeade today."
"How do you know, Professor?"
"Because he was doing detention with me. He has now failed to complete his Transfiguration homework twice in a row. So, thank you for telling me your suspicions, Potter,” she said as she marched past them, “but I need to go up to the hospital wing now to check on Katie Bell. Good day to you all."
"So who do you reckon Katie was supposed to give the necklace to?"
"Goodness only knows,” said Hermione. “But whoever it was has had a narrow escape. No one could have opened that package without touching the necklace."
"It could’ve been meant for loads of people,” said Harry. “Dumbledore — the Death Eaters would love to get rid of him, he must be one of their top targets. Or Slughorn — Dumbledore reckons Voldemort really wanted him and they can’t be pleased that he’s sided with Dumbledore. Or —"
"Or you,"
"Couldn’t have been,” said Harry, “or Katie would’ve just turned around in the lane and given it to me, wouldn’t she? I was behind her all the way out of the Three Broomsticks. It would have made much more sense to deliver the parcel outside Hogwarts, what with Filch searching everyone who goes in and out. I wonder why Malfoy told her to take it into the castle?"
"Harry, Malfoy wasn’t in Hogsmeade!"
"He must have used an accomplice, then,” said Harry. “Crabbe or Goyle — or, come to think of it, another Death Eater, he’ll have loads better cronies than Crabbe and Goyle now he’s joined up —"
"Dilligrout,"
"It wasn’t a very slick attack, really, when you stop and think about it,” said Ron, casually turfing a first year out of one of the good armchairs by the fire so that he could sit down. “The curse didn’t even make it into the castle. Not what you’d call foolproof."
"You’re right,” said Hermione, prodding Ron out of the chair with her foot and offering it to the first year again. “It wasn’t very well thought-out at all."
"But since when has Malfoy been one of the world’s great thinkers?"
"Oh, and Malfoy knows, of course,"
"You have had a busy time while I have been away,” Dumbledore said. “I believe you witnessed Katie’s accident."
"Yes, sir. How is she?"
"Still very unwell, although she was relatively lucky. She appears to have brushed the necklace with the smallest possible amount of skin: There was a tiny hole in her glove. Had she put it on, had she even held it in her ungloved hand, she would have died, perhaps instantly. Luckily Professor Snape was able to do enough to prevent a rapid spread of the curse —"
"Why him?” asked Harry quickly. “Why not Madam Pomfrey?"
"Impertinent,” said a soft voice from one of the portraits on the wall, and Phineas Nigellus Black, Sirius’s great-great-grandfather, raised his head from his arms where he had appeared to be sleeping. “I would not have permitted a student to question the way Hogwarts operated in my day."
"Yes, thank you, Phineas,” said Dumbledore quellingly. “Professor Snape knows much more about the Dark Arts than Madam Pomfrey, Harry. Anyway, the St. Mungo’s staff are sending me hourly reports, and I am hopeful that Katie will make a full recovery in time."
"Where were you this weekend, sir?"
"I would rather not say just now,” said Dumbledore. “However, I shall tell you in due course."
"You will?"
"Yes, I expect so,"
"Sir,” said Harry tentatively, “I met Mundungus in Hogsmeade."
"Ah yes, I am already aware that Mundungus has been treating your inheritance with light-fingered contempt,” said Dumbledore, frowning a little. “He has gone to ground since you accosted him outside the Three Broomsticks; I rather think he dreads facing me. However, rest assured that he will not be making away with any more of Sirius’s old possessions."
"That mangy old half-blood has been stealing Black heirlooms?"
"Professor,” said Harry, after a short pause, “did Professor McGonagall tell you what I told her after Katie got hurt? About Draco Malfoy?"
"She told me of your suspicions, yes,"
"And do you — ?"
"I shall take all appropriate measures to investigate anyone who might have had a hand in Katie’s accident,” said Dumbledore. “But what concerns me now, Harry, is our lesson."
"You will remember, I am sure, that we left the tale of Lord Voldemort’s beginnings at the point where the handsome Muggle, Tom Riddle, had abandoned his witch wife, Merope, and returned to his family home in Little Hangleton. Merope was left alone in London, expecting the baby who would one day become Lord Voldemort."
"How do you know she was in London, sir?"
"Because of the evidence of one Caractacus Burke,” said Dumbledore, “who, by an odd coincidence, helped found the very shop whence came the necklace we have just been discussing."
"Yes, we acquired it in curious circumstances. It was brought in by a young witch just before Christmas, oh, many years ago now. She said she needed the gold badly, well, that much was obvious. Covered in rags and pretty far along . . . Going to have a baby, see. She said the locket had been Slytherin’s. Well, we hear that sort of story all the time, ‘Oh, this was Merlin’s, this was, his favorite teapot,’ but when I looked at it, it had his mark all right, and a few simple spells were enough to tell me the truth. Of course, that made it near enough priceless. She didn’t seem to have any idea how much it was worth. Happy to get ten Galleons for it. Best bargain we ever made!"
"He only gave her ten Galleons?"
"Caractacus Burke was not famed for his generosity,” said Dumbledore. “So we know that, near the end of her pregnancy, Merope was alone in London and in desperate need of gold, desperate enough to sell her one and only valuable possession, the locket that was one of Marvolo’s treasured family heirlooms."
"But she could do magic!” said Harry impatiently. “She could have got food and everything for herself by magic, couldn’t she?"
"Ah,” said Dumbledore, “perhaps she could. But it is my belief — I am guessing again, but I am sure I am right — that when her husband abandoned her, Merope stopped using magic. I do not think that she wanted to be a witch any longer. Of course, it is also possible that her unrequited love and the attendant despair sapped her of her powers; that can happen. In any case, as you are about to see, Merope refused to raise her wand even to save her own life."
"She wouldn’t even stay alive for her son?"
"Could you possibly be feeling sorry for Lord Voldemort?"
"No,” said Harry quickly, “but she had a choice, didn’t she, not like my mother —"
"Your mother had a choice too,” said Dumbledore gently. “Yes, Merope Riddle chose death in spite of a son who needed her, but do not judge her too harshly, Harry. She was greatly weakened by long suffering and she never had your mother’s courage. And now, if you will stand . . ."
"Where are we going?"
"This time,” said Dumbledore, “we are going to enter my memory. I think you will find it both rich in detail and satisfyingly accurate. After you, Harry . . ."
"There I am,"
"Nice suit, sir,"
"Good afternoon. I have an appointment with a Mrs. Cole, who, I believe, is the matron here?"
"Oh,” said the bewildered-looking girl, taking in Dumbledore’s eccentric appearance. “Um . . . just a mo’ . . . MRS. COLE!"
"Come in, she’s on ’er way."
". . . and take the iodine upstairs to Martha, Billy Stubbs has been picking his scabs and Eric Whalley’s oozing all over his sheets — chicken pox on top of everything else,"
"Good afternoon,"
"My name is Albus Dumbledore. I sent you a letter requesting an appointment and you very kindly invited me here today."
"Oh yes. Well — well then — you’d better come into my room. Yes."
"I am here, as I told you in my letter, to discuss Tom Riddle and arrangements for his future,"
"Are you family?"
"No, I am a teacher,” said Dumbledore. “I have come to offer Tom a place at my school."
"What school’s this, then?"
"It is called Hogwarts,"
"And how come you’re interested in Tom?"
"We believe he has qualities we are looking for."
"You mean he’s won a scholarship? How can he have done? He’s never been entered for one."
"Well, his name has been down for our school since birth —"
"Who registered him? His parents?"
"Here,” said Dumbledore, waving his wand once as he passed her the piece of paper, “I think this will make everything clear."
"That seems perfectly in order,"
"Er — may I offer you a glass of gin?"
"Thank you very much,"
"I was wondering whether you could tell me anything of Tom Riddle’s history? I think he was born here in the orphanage?"
"That’s right,” said Mrs. Cole, helping herself to more gin. “I remember it clear as anything, because I’d just started here myself. New Year’s Eve and bitter cold, snowing, you know. Nasty night. And this girl, not much older than I was myself at the time, came staggering up the front steps. Well, she wasn’t the first. We took her in, and she had the baby within the hour. And she was dead in another hour."
"Did she say anything before she died?” asked Dumbledore. “Anything about the boy’s father, for instance?"
"Now, as it happens, she did,"
"Well, we named him just as she’d said, it seemed so important to the poor girl, but no Tom nor Marvolo nor any kind of Riddle ever came looking for him, nor any family at all, so he stayed in the orphanage and he’s been here ever since."
"He’s a funny boy."
"Yes,” said Dumbledore. “I thought he might be."
"He was a funny baby too. He hardly ever cried, you know. And then, when he got a little older, he was . . . odd."
"Odd in what way?"
"Well, he —"
"He’s definitely got a place at your school, you say?"
"Definitely,"
"And nothing I say can change that?"
"Nothing,"
"You’ll be taking him away, whatever?"
"Whatever,"
"He scares the other children."
"You mean he is a bully?"
"I think he must be,” said Mrs. Cole, frowning slightly, “but it’s very hard to catch him at it. There have been incidents. . . . Nasty things . . ."
"Billy Stubbs’s rabbit . . . well, Tom said he didn’t do it and I don’t see how he could have done, but even so, it didn’t hang itself from the rafters, did it?"
"I shouldn’t think so, no,"
"But I’m jiggered if I know how he got up there to do it. All I know is he and Billy had argued the day before. And then” — Mrs. Cole took another swig of gin, slopping a little over her chin this time — “on the summer outing — we take them out, you know, once a year, to the countryside or to the seaside — well, Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop were never quite right afterwards, and all we ever got out of them was that they’d gone into a cave with Tom Riddle. He swore they’d just gone exploring, but something happened in there, I’m sure of it. And, well, there have been a lot of things, funny things. . . ."
"I don’t think many people will be sorry to see the back of him."
"You understand, I’m sure, that we will not be keeping him permanently?” said Dumbledore. “He will have to return here, at the very least, every summer."
"Oh, well, that’s better than a whack on the nose with a rusty poker,” said Mrs. Cole with a slight hiccup. She got to her feet, and Harry was impressed to see that she was quite steady, even though two-thirds of the gin was now gone. “I suppose you’d like to see him?"
"Very much,"
"Here we are,"
"Tom? You’ve got a visitor. This is Mr. Dumberton — sorry, Dunderbore. He’s come to tell you — well, I’ll let him do it."
"How do you do, Tom?"
"I am Professor Dumbledore."
"‘Professor’?” repeated Riddle. He looked wary. “Is that like ‘doctor’? What are you here for? Did she get you in to have a look at me?"
"No, no,"
"I don’t believe you,” said Riddle. “She wants me looked at, doesn’t she? Tell the truth!"
"Who are you?"
"I have told you. My name is Professor Dumbledore and I work at a school called Hogwarts. I have come to offer you a place at my school — your new school, if you would like to come."
"You can’t kid me! The asylum, that’s where you’re from, isn’t it? ‘Professor,’ yes, of course — well, I’m not going, see? That old cat’s the one who should be in the asylum. I never did anything to little Amy Benson or Dennis Bishop, and you can ask them, they’ll tell you!"
"I am not from the asylum,” said Dumbledore patiently. “I am a teacher and, if you will sit down calmly, I shall tell you about Hogwarts. Of course, if you would rather not come to the school, nobody will force you —"
"I’d like to see them try,"
"Hogwarts,” Dumbledore went on, as though he had not heard Riddle’s last words, “is a school for people with special abilities —"
"I’m not mad!"
"I know that you are not mad. Hogwarts is not a school for mad people. It is a school of magic."
"Magic?"
"That’s right,"
"It’s . . . it’s magic, what I can do?"
"What is it that you can do?"
"All sorts,” breathed Riddle. A flush of excitement was rising up his neck into his hollow cheeks; he looked fevered. “I can make things move without touching them. I can make animals do what I want them to do, without training them. I can make bad things happen to people who annoy me. I can make them hurt if I want to."
"I knew I was different,” he whispered to his own quivering fingers. “I knew I was special. Always, I knew there was something."
"Well, you were quite right,” said Dumbledore, who was no longer smiling, but watching Riddle intently. “You are a wizard."
"Are you a wizard too?"
"Yes, I am."
"Prove it,” said Riddle at once, in the same commanding tone he had used when he had said, “Tell the truth."
"If, as I take it, you are accepting your place at Hogwarts —"
"Of course I am!"
"Then you will address me as ‘Professor’ or ‘sir.’"
"I’m sorry, sir. I meant — please, Professor, could you show me — ?"
"Where can I get one of them?"
"All in good time,” said Dumbledore. “I think there is something trying to get out of your wardrobe."
"Open the door,"
"Take it out,"
"Is there anything in that box that you ought not to have?"
"Yes, I suppose so, sir,"
"Open it,"
"You will return them to their owners with your apologies,” said Dumbledore calmly, putting his wand back into his jacket. “I shall know whether it has been done. And be warned: Thieving is not tolerated at Hogwarts."
"Yes, sir."
"At Hogwarts,” Dumbledore went on, “we teach you not only to use magic, but to control it. You have — inadvertently, I am sure — been using your powers in a way that is neither taught nor tolerated at our school. You are not the first, nor will you be the last, to allow your magic to run away with you. But you should know that Hogwarts can expel students, and the Ministry of Magic — yes, there is a Ministry — will punish lawbreakers still more severely. All new wizards must accept that, in entering our world, they abide by our laws."
"Yes, sir,"
"I haven’t got any money."
"That is easily remedied,” said Dumbledore, drawing a leather money-pouch from his pocket. “There is a fund at Hogwarts for those who require assistance to buy books and robes. You might have to buy some of your spellbooks and so on secondhand, but —"
"Where do you buy spellbooks?"
"In Diagon Alley,” said Dumbledore. “I have your list of books and school equipment with me. I can help you find everything —"
"You’re coming with me?"
"Certainly, if you —"
"I don’t need you,” said Riddle. “I’m used to doing things for myself, I go round London on my own all the time. How do you get to this Diagon Alley — sir?"
"You will be able to see it, although Muggles around you — non-magical people, that is — will not. Ask for Tom the barman — easy enough to remember, as he shares your name —"
"You dislike the name ‘Tom’?"
"There are a lot of Toms,” muttered Riddle. Then, as though he could not suppress the question, as though it burst from him in spite of himself, he asked, “Was my father a wizard? He was called Tom Riddle too, they’ve told me."
"I’m afraid I don’t know,"
"My mother can’t have been magic, or she wouldn’t have died,” said Riddle, more to himself than Dumbledore. “It must’ve been him. So — when I’ve got all my stuff — when do I come to this Hogwarts?"
"All the details are on the second piece of parchment in your envelope,” said Dumbledore. “You will leave from King’s Cross Station on the first of September. There is a train ticket in there too."
"I can speak to snakes. I found out when we’ve been to the country on trips — they find me, they whisper to me. Is that normal for a wizard?"
"It is unusual,” said Dumbledore, after a moment’s hesitation, “but not unheard of."
"Good-bye, Tom. I shall see you at Hogwarts."
"I think that will do,"
"Sit down,"
"He believed it much quicker than I did — I mean, when you told him he was a wizard,” said Harry. “I didn’t believe Hagrid at first, when he told me."
"Yes, Riddle was perfectly ready to believe that he was — to use his word — ‘special,’"
"Did you know — then?"
"Did I know that I had just met the most dangerous Dark wizard of all time?"
"His powers, as you heard, were surprisingly well-developed for such a young wizard and — most interestingly and ominously of all — he had already discovered that he had some measure of control over them, and begun to use them consciously. And as you saw, they were not the random experiments typical of young wizards: He was already using magic against other people, to frighten, to punish, to control. The little stories of the strangled rabbit and the young boy and girl he lured into a cave were most suggestive. . . . ‘I can make them hurt if I want to. . . .’"
"And he was a Parselmouth,"
"Time is making fools of us again,"
"Firstly, I hope you noticed Riddle’s reaction when I mentioned that another shared his first name, ‘Tom’?"
"And now, it really is time for bed."
"Yes, Harry?"
"The ring’s gone,” said Harry, looking around. “But I thought you might have the mouth organ or something."
"Very astute, Harry, but the mouth organ was only ever a mouth organ."
"Wow, scary thought, the boy You-Know-Who,” said Ron quietly, as they took their places around one of the gnarled Snargaluff stumps that formed this term’s project, and began pulling on their protective gloves. “But I still don’t get why Dumbledore’s showing you all this. I mean, it’s really interesting and everything, but what’s the point?"
"Dunno,” said Harry, inserting a gum shield. “But he says it’s all important and it’ll help me survive."
"I think it’s fascinating,” said Hermione earnestly. “It makes absolute sense to know as much about Voldemort as possible. How else will you find out his weaknesses?"
"So how was Slughorn’s latest party?"
"Oh, it was quite fun, really,” said Hermione, now putting on protective goggles. “I mean, he drones on about famous ex-pupils a bit, and he absolutely fawns on McLaggen because he’s so well-connected, but he gave us some really nice food and he introduced us to Gwenog Jones."
"Gwenog Jones?” said Ron, his eyes widening under his own goggles. “The Gwenog Jones? Captain of the Holyhead Harpies?"
"That’s right,” said Hermione. “Personally, I thought she was a bit full of herself, but —"
"Quite enough chat over here!” said Professor Sprout briskly, bustling over and looking stern. “You’re lagging behind, everybody else has started, and Neville’s already got his first pod!"
"Okay, Professor, we’re starting now!” said Ron, adding quietly, when she had turned away again, “should’ve used Muffliato, Harry."
"No, we shouldn’t!” said Hermione at once, looking, as she always did, intensely cross at the thought of the Half-Blood Prince and his spells. “Well, come on . . . we’d better get going. . . ."
"You know, I don’t think I’ll be having any of these in my garden when I’ve got my own place,"
"Pass me a bowl,"
"Don’t be squeamish, squeeze it out, they’re best when they’re fresh!"
"Anyway,” said Hermione, continuing their interrupted conversation as though a lump of wood had not just attacked them, “Slughorn’s going to have a Christmas party, Harry, and there’s no way you’ll be able to wriggle out of this one because he actually asked me to check your free evenings, so he could be sure to have it on a night you can come."
"And this is another party just for Slughorn’s favorites, is it?"
"Just for the Slug Club, yes,"
"Look, I didn’t make up the name ‘Slug Club’ —"
"‘Slug Club,’” repeated Ron with a sneer worthy of Malfoy. “It’s pathetic. Well, I hope you enjoy your party. Why don’t you try hooking up with McLaggen, then Slughorn can make you King and Queen Slug —"
"We’re allowed to bring guests,” said Hermione, who for some reason had turned a bright, boiling scarlet, “and I was going to ask you to come, but if you think it’s that stupid then I won’t bother!"
"You were going to ask me?"
"Yes,” said Hermione angrily. “But obviously if you’d rather I hooked up with McLaggen . . ."
"No, I wouldn’t,"
"Reparo,"
"Hand that over, Harry,” said Hermione hurriedly. “It says we’re supposed to puncture them with something sharp. . . ."
"Gotcha!"
"Are you still interested in playing Chaser?"
"Wha — ? Yeah, of course!"
"Well then, you’re in,” said Harry. “There’s a practice tonight, seven o’clock."
"Right,” said Dean. “Cheers, Harry! Blimey, I can’t wait to tell Ginny!"
"It was an accident, I’m sorry, Demelza, really sorry!” Ron shouted after her as she zigzagged back to the ground, dripping blood everywhere. “I just —"
"Panicked,” Ginny said angrily, landing next to Demelza and examining her fat lip. “You prat, Ron, look at the state of her!"
"I can fix that,” said Harry, landing beside the two girls, pointing his wand at Demelza’s mouth, and saying “Episkey.” “And Ginny, don’t call Ron a prat, you’re not the Captain of this team —"
"Well, you seemed too busy to call him a prat and I thought someone should —"
"In the air, everyone, let’s go. . . ."
"Good work, everyone, I think we’ll flatten Slytherin,"
"I played like a sack of dragon dung,"
"No, you didn’t,” said Harry firmly. “You’re the best Keeper I tried out, Ron. Your only problem is nerves."
"Oi!"
"What?"
"I don’t want to find my own sister snogging people in public!"
"This was a deserted corridor till you came butting in!"
"Er . . . c’mon, Ginny,” said Dean, “let’s go back to the common room. . . ."
"You go!” said Ginny. “I want a word with my dear brother!"
"Right,” said Ginny, tossing her long red hair out of her face and glaring at Ron, “let’s get this straight once and for all. It is none of your business who I go out with or what I do with them, Ron —"
"Yeah, it is!” said Ron, just as angrily. “D’you think I want people saying my sister’s a —"
"A what?” shouted Ginny, drawing her wand. “A what, exactly?"
"He doesn’t mean anything, Ginny —"
"Oh yes he does!” she said, flaring up at Harry. “Just because he’s never snogged anyone in his life, just because the best kiss he’s ever had is from our Auntie Muriel —"
"Shut your mouth!"
"No, I will not!” yelled Ginny, beside herself. “I’ve seen you with Phlegm, hoping she’ll kiss you on the cheek every time you see her, it’s pathetic! If you went out and got a bit of snogging done yourself, you wouldn’t mind so much that everyone else does it!"
"You don’t know what you’re talking about!” Ron roared, trying to get a clear shot at Ginny around Harry, who was now standing in front of her with his arms outstretched. “Just because I don’t do it in public — !"
"Been kissing Pigwidgeon, have you? Or have you got a picture of Auntie Muriel stashed under your pillow?"
"You —"
"Don’t be stupid —"
"Harry’s snogged Cho Chang!” shouted Ginny, who sounded close to tears now. “And Hermione snogged Viktor Krum, it’s only you who acts like it’s something disgusting, Ron, and that’s because you’ve got about as much experience as a twelve-year-old!"
"C’mon,"
"Oi, out of the way!"
"betrayal of trust” . . . “supposed to be my friend"
"D’you think Hermione did snog Krum?"
"What?” he said confusedly. “Oh . . . er . . ."
"yes,"
"Dilligrout,"
"You shut up and leave her alone!"
"ENOUGH!” bellowed Harry, who had seen Ginny glowering in Ron’s direction and, remembering her reputation as an accomplished caster of the Bat-Bogey Hex, soared over to intervene before things got out of hand. “Peakes, go and pack up the Bludgers. Demelza, pull yourself together, you played really well today. Ron . . .” he waited until the rest of the team were out of earshot before saying it, “you’re my best mate, but carry on treating the rest of them like this and I’m going to kick you off the team."
"I resign. I’m pathetic."
"You’re not pathetic and you’re not resigning!” said Harry fiercely, seizing Ron by the front of his robes. “You can save anything when you’re on form, it’s a mental problem you’ve got!"
"You calling me mental?"
"Yeah, maybe I am!"
"I know you haven’t got any time to find another Keeper, so I’ll play tomorrow, but if we lose, and we will, I’m taking myself off the team."
"Cheer up, Ron!” called Lavender. “I know you’ll be brilliant!"
"Tea?” Harry asked him. “Coffee? Pumpkin juice?"
"Anything,"
"How are you both feeling?"
"Fine,” said Harry, who was concentrating on handing Ron a glass of pumpkin juice. “There you go, Ron. Drink up."
"Don’t drink that, Ron!"
"Why not?"
"You just put something in that drink."
"Excuse me?"
"You heard me. I saw you. You just tipped something into Ron’s drink. You’ve got the bottle in your hand right now!"
"I don’t know what you’re talking about,"
"Ron, I warn you, don’t drink it!” Hermione said again, alarmed, but Ron picked up the glass, drained it in one gulp, and said, “Stop bossing me around, Hermione."
"You should be expelled for that. I’d never have believed it of you, Harry!"
"Hark who’s talking,” he whispered back. “Confunded anyone lately?"
"Nearly time,"
"Pretty lucky the weather’s this good, eh?"
"Yeah,"
"Conditions look ideal,” said Ginny, ignoring Ron. “And guess what? That Slytherin Chaser Vaisey — he took a Bludger in the head yesterday during their practice, and he’s too sore to play! And even better than that — Malfoy’s gone off sick too!"
"What?” said Harry, wheeling around to stare at her. “He’s ill? What’s wrong with him?"
"No idea, but it’s great for us,” said Ginny brightly. “They’re playing Harper instead; he’s in my year and he’s an idiot."
"Fishy, isn’t it?” he said in an undertone to Ron. “Malfoy not playing?"
"Lucky, I call it,” said Ron, looking slightly more animated. “And Vaisey off too, he’s their best goal scorer, I didn’t fancy — hey!"
"What?"
"I . . . you . . .” Ron had dropped his voice, he looked both scared and excited. “My drink . . . my pumpkin juice . . . you didn’t . . . ?"
"We’ll be starting in about five minutes, you’d better get your boots on."
"Captains shake hands,” she said, and Harry had his hand crushed by the new Slytherin Captain, Urquhart. “Mount your brooms. On the whistle . . . three . . . two . . . one . . ."
"Well, there they go, and I think we’re all surprised to see the team that Potter’s put together this year. Many thought, given Ronald Weasley’s patchy performance as Keeper last year, that he might be off the team, but of course, a close personal friendship with the Captain does help. . . ."
"Oh, and here comes Slytherin’s first attempt on goal, it’s Urquhart streaking down the pitch and —"
"— Weasley saves it, well, he’s bound to get lucky sometimes, I suppose. . . ."
"That’s right, Smith, he is,"
"Of course, Coote isn’t really the usual build for a Beater,” said Zacharias loftily, “they’ve generally got a bit more muscle —"
"Hit a Bludger at him!"
"Weasley Is Our King,"
"Thinks he’s something special today, doesn’t he?” said a snide voice, and Harry was nearly knocked off his broom as Harper collided with him hard and deliberately. “Your blood-traitor pal . . ."
"And I think Harper of Slytherin’s seen the Snitch!” said Zacharias Smith through his megaphone. “Yes, he’s certainly seen something Potter hasn’t!"
"Oi, Harper!” yelled Harry in desperation. “How much did Malfoy pay you to come on instead of him?"
"YES!"
"Ginny, where’re you going?” yelled Harry, who had found himself trapped in the midst of a mass midair hug with the rest of the team, but Ginny sped right on past them until, with an almighty crash, she collided with the commentator’s podium. As the crowd shrieked and laughed, the Gryffindor team landed beside the wreckage of wood under which Zacharias was feebly stirring; Harry heard Ginny saying blithely to an irate Professor McGonagall, “Forgot to brake, Professor, sorry."
"Party up in the common room, Seamus said!” yelled Dean exuberantly. “C’mon, Ginny, Demelza!"
"I want a word with you, Harry.” She took a deep breath. “You shouldn’t have done it. You heard Slughorn, it’s illegal."
"What are you going to do, turn us in?"
"What are you two talking about?"
"You know perfectly well what we’re talking about!” said Hermione shrilly. “You spiked Ron’s juice with lucky potion at breakfast! Felix Felicis!"
"No, I didn’t,"
"Yes you did, Harry, and that’s why everything went right, there were Slytherin players missing and Ron saved everything!"
"I didn’t put it in!” said Harry, grinning broadly. He slipped his hand inside his jacket pocket and drew out the tiny bottle that Hermione had seen in his hand that morning. It was full of golden potion and the cork was still tightly sealed with wax. “I wanted Ron to think I’d done it, so I faked it when I knew you were looking.” He looked at Ron. “You saved everything because you felt lucky. You did it all yourself."
"There really wasn’t anything in my pumpkin juice?” Ron said, astounded. “But the weather’s good . . . and Vaisey couldn’t play. . . . I honestly haven’t been given lucky potion?"
"You added Felix Felicis to Ron’s juice this morning, that’s why he saved everything! See! I can save goals without help, Hermione!"
"I never said you couldn’t — Ron, you thought you’d been given it too!"
"Er,” said Harry into the sudden silence; he had not expected his plan to backfire like this, “shall . . . shall we go up to the party, then?"
"You go!” said Hermione, blinking back tears. “I’m sick of Ron at the moment, I don’t know what I’m supposed to have done. . . ."
"Looking for Ron?” she asked, smirking. “He’s over there, the filthy hypocrite."
"It looks like he’s eating her face, doesn’t it?” said Ginny dispassionately. “But I suppose he’s got to refine his technique somehow. Good game, Harry."
"Hermione?"
"Oh, hello, Harry,” she said in a brittle voice. “I was just practicing."
"Yeah . . . they’re — er — really good. . . ."
"Ron seems to be enjoying the celebrations."
"Er . . . does he?"
"Don’t pretend you didn’t see him,” said Hermione. “He wasn’t exactly hiding it, was — ?"
"Oh,"
"Oops!"
"Hi, Harry! Wondered where you’d got to!"
"You shouldn’t leave Lavender waiting outside,” she said quietly. “She’ll wonder where you’ve gone."
"Oppugno!"
"Gerremoffme!"
"She can’t complain,” he told Harry. “She snogged Krum. So she’s found out someone wants to snog me too. Well, it’s a free country. I haven’t done anything wrong."
"I never promised Hermione anything,” Ron mumbled. “I mean, all right, I was going to go to Slughorn’s Christmas party with her, but she never said . . . just as friends . . . I’m a free agent. . . ."
"Krum” and “can’t complain"
"He’s at perfect liberty to kiss whomever he likes,” said Hermione, while the librarian, Madam Pince, prowled the shelves behind them. “I really couldn’t care less."
"And incidentally,” said Hermione, after a few moments, “you need to be careful."
"For the last time,” said Harry, speaking in a slightly hoarse whisper after three-quarters of an hour of silence, “I am not giving back this book, I’ve learned more from the Half-Blood Prince than Snape or Slughorn have taught me in —"
"I’m not talking about your stupid so-called Prince,” said Hermione, giving his book a nasty look as though it had been rude to her. “I’m talking about earlier. I went into the girls’ bathroom just before I came in here and there were about a dozen girls in there, including that Romilda Vane, trying to decide how to slip you a love potion. They’re all hoping they’re going to get you to take them to Slughorn’s party, and they all seem to have bought Fred and George’s love potions, which I’m afraid to say probably work —"
"Why didn’t you confiscate them then?"
"They didn’t have the potions with them in the bathroom,” said Hermione scornfully. “They were just discussing tactics. As I doubt whether even the Half-Blood Prince” — she gave the book another nasty look — “could dream up an antidote for a dozen different love potions at once, I’d just invite someone to go with you, that’ll stop all the others thinking they’ve still got a chance. It’s tomorrow night, they’re getting desperate."
"There isn’t anyone I want to invite,"
"Well, just be careful what you drink, because Romilda Vane looked like she meant business,"
"Hang on a moment,” he said slowly. “I thought Filch had banned anything bought at Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes?"
"And when has anyone ever paid attention to what Filch has banned?"
"But I thought all the owls were being searched. So how come these girls are able to bring love potions into school?"
"Fred and George send them disguised as perfumes and cough potions,” said Hermione. “It’s part of their Owl Order Service."
"You know a lot about it."
"It was all on the back of the bottles they showed Ginny and me in the summer,” she said coldly. “I don’t go around putting potions in people’s drinks . . . or pretending to, either, which is just as bad. . . ."
"Yeah, well, never mind that,” said Harry quickly. “The point is, Filch is being fooled, isn’t he? These girls are getting stuff into the school disguised as something else! So why couldn’t Malfoy have brought the necklace into the school — ?"
"Oh, Harry . . . not that again . . ."
"Come on, why not?"
"Look,” sighed Hermione, “Secrecy Sensors detect jinxes, curses, and concealment charms, don’t they? They’re used to find Dark Magic and Dark objects. They’d have picked up a powerful curse, like the one on that necklace, within seconds. But something that’s just been put in the wrong bottle wouldn’t register — and anyway, love potions aren’t Dark or dangerous —"
"Easy for you to say,"
"— so it would be down to Filch to realize it wasn’t a cough potion, and he’s not a very good wizard, I doubt he can tell one potion from —"
"The library is now closed,” she said. “Mind you return anything you have borrowed to the correct — what have you been doing to that book, you depraved boy?"
"It isn’t the library’s, it’s mine!"
"Despoiled!” she hissed. “Desecrated! Befouled!"
"It’s just a book that’s been written on!"
"She’ll ban you from the library if you’re not careful. Why did you have to bring that stupid book?"
"It’s not my fault she’s barking mad, Hermione. Or d’you think she overheard you being rude about Filch? I’ve always thought there might be something going on between them. . . ."
"Oh, ha ha . . ."
"Baubles,"
"Same to you,"
"Hi, Harry!” said Romilda Vane, the moment he had climbed through the portrait hole. “Fancy a gillywater?"
"what-did-I-tell-you?"
"No thanks,” said Harry quickly. “I don’t like it much."
"Well, take these anyway,” said Romilda, thrusting a box into his hands. “Chocolate Cauldrons, they’ve got firewhisky in them. My gran sent them to me, but I don’t like them."
"Oh — right — thanks a lot,” said Harry, who could not think what else to say. “Er — I’m just going over here with . . ."
"Told you,” said Hermione succinctly. “Sooner you ask someone, sooner they’ll all leave you alone and you can —"
"Well, good night, Harry,"
"Oh, hello, Harry,” said Luna. “Did you know one of your eyebrows is bright yellow?"
"Hi, Luna. Hermione, you left your stuff. . . ."
"Oh yes,” said Hermione in a choked voice, taking her things and turning away quickly to hide the fact that she was wiping her eyes on her pencil case. “Thank you, Harry. Well, I’d better get going. . . ."
"She’s a bit upset,” said Luna. “I thought at first it was Moaning Myrtle in there, but it turned out to be Hermione. She said something about that Ron Weasley. . . ."
"Yeah, they’ve had a row,"
"He says very funny things sometimes, doesn’t he?” said Luna, as they set off down the corridor together. “But he can be a bit unkind. I noticed that last year."
"I s’pose,” said Harry. Luna was demonstrating her usual knack of speaking uncomfortable truths; he had never met anyone quite like her. “So have you had a good term?"
"Oh, it’s been all right,” said Luna. “A bit lonely without the D.A. Ginny’s been nice, though. She stopped two boys in our Transfiguration class calling me ‘Loony’ the other day —"
"How would you like to come to Slughorn’s party with me tonight?"
"Slughorn’s party? With you?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “We’re supposed to bring guests, so I thought you might like . . . I mean . . .” He was keen to make his intentions perfectly clear. “I mean, just as friends, you know. But if you don’t want to . . ."
"Oh, no, I’d love to go with you as friends!” said Luna, beaming as he had never seen her beam before. “Nobody’s ever asked me to a party before, as a friend! Is that why you dyed your eyebrow, for the party? Should I do mine too?"
"No,” said Harry firmly, “that was a mistake. I’ll get Hermione to put it right for me. So, I’ll meet you in the entrance hall at eight o’clock then."
"AHA!"
"Potty asked Loony to go to the party! Potty lurves Loony! Potty luuuuurves Looooooony!"
"Potty loves Loony!"
"Nice to keep these things private,"
"You could’ve taken anyone!” said Ron in disbelief over dinner. “Anyone! And you chose Loony Lovegood?"
"Don’t call her that, Ron,” snapped Ginny, pausing behind Harry on her way to join friends. “I’m really glad you’re taking her, Harry, she’s so excited."
"You could say sorry,"
"What, and get attacked by another flock of canaries?"
"What did you have to imitate her for?"
"She laughed at my mustache!"
"So did I, it was the stupidest thing I’ve ever seen."
"Hi, Harry,"
"Hi,” said Harry. “How’re you? You’re staying at Hogwarts, then? I heard your parents wanted you to leave."
"I managed to talk them out of it for the time being,” said Parvati. “That Katie thing really freaked them out, but as there hasn’t been anything since . . . Oh, hi, Hermione!"
"Hi, Parvati!” said Hermione, ignoring Ron and Lavender completely. “Are you going to Slughorn’s party tonight?"
"No invite,” said Parvati gloomily. “I’d love to go, though, it sounds like it’s going to be really good. . . . You’re going, aren’t you?"
"Yes, I’m meeting Cormac at eight, and we’re —"
"— we’re going up to the party together."
"Cormac?” said Parvati. “Cormac McLaggen, you mean?"
"That’s right,” said Hermione sweetly. “The one who almost” — she put a great deal of emphasis on the word — “became Gryffindor Keeper."
"Are you going out with him, then?"
"Oh — yes — didn’t you know?"
"No!” said Parvati, looking positively agog at this piece of gossip. “Wow, you like your Quidditch players, don’t you? First Krum, then McLaggen . . ."
"I like really good Quidditch players,” Hermione corrected her, still smiling. “Well, see you . . . Got to go and get ready for the party. . . ."
"Hi,” he said. “Shall we get going then?"
"Oh yes,” she said happily. “Where is the party?"
"Slughorn’s office,” said Harry, leading her up the marble staircase away from all the staring and muttering. “Did you hear, there’s supposed to be a vampire coming?"
"Rufus Scrimgeour?"
"I — what?” said Harry, disconcerted. “You mean the Minister of Magic?"
"Yes, he’s a vampire,” said Luna matter-of-factly. “Father wrote a very long article about it when Scrimgeour first took over from Cornelius Fudge, but he was forced not to publish by somebody from the Ministry. Obviously, they didn’t want the truth to get out!"
"Harry, m’boy!” boomed Slughorn, almost as soon as Harry and Luna had squeezed in through the door. “Come in, come in, so many people I’d like you to meet!"
"Harry, I’d like you to meet Eldred Worple, an old student of mine, author of Blood Brothers: My Life Amongst the Vampires — and, of course, his friend Sanguini."
"Harry Potter, I am simply delighted!” said Worple, peering shortsightedly up into Harry’s face. “I was saying to Professor Slughorn only the other day, ‘Where is the biography of Harry Potter for which we have all been waiting?’"
"Er,” said Harry, “were you?"
"Just as modest as Horace described!” said Worple. “But seriously” — his manner changed; it became suddenly businesslike — “I would be delighted to write it myself — people are craving to know more about you, dear boy, craving! If you were prepared to grant me a few interviews, say in four- or five-hour sessions, why, we could have the book finished within months. And all with very little effort on your part, I assure you — ask Sanguini here if it isn’t quite — Sanguini, stay here!” added Worple, suddenly stern, for the vampire had been edging toward the nearby group of girls, a rather hungry look in his eye. “Here, have a pasty,"
"My dear boy, the gold you could make, you have no idea —"
"I’m definitely not interested,” said Harry firmly, “and I’ve just seen a friend of mine, sorry."
"Hermione! Hermione!"
"Harry! There you are, thank goodness! Hi, Luna!"
"What’s happened to you?"
"Oh, I’ve just escaped — I mean, I’ve just left Cormac,” she said. “Under the mistletoe,"
"Serves you right for coming with him,"
"I thought he’d annoy Ron most,” said Hermione dispassionately. “I debated for a while about Zacharias Smith, but I thought, on the whole —"
"You considered Smith?"
"Yes, I did, and I’m starting to wish I’d chosen him, McLaggen makes Grawp look a gentleman. Let’s go this way, we’ll be able to see him coming, he’s so tall. . . ."
"Hello,"
"Good evening, my dear,” said Professor Trelawney, focusing upon Luna with some difficulty. Harry could smell cooking sherry again. “I haven’t seen you in my classes lately. . . ."
"No, I’ve got Firenze this year,"
"Oh, of course,” said Professor Trelawney with an angry, drunken titter. “Or Dobbin, as I prefer to think of him. You would have thought, would you not, that now I am returned to the school Professor Dumbledore might have got rid of the horse? But no . . . we share classes. . . . It’s an insult, frankly, an insult. Do you know . . ."
"Let’s get something straight. Are you planning to tell Ron that you interfered at Keeper tryouts?"
"Do you really think I’d stoop that low?"
"Hermione, if you can ask out McLaggen —"
"There’s a difference,” said Hermione with dignity. “I’ve got no plans to tell Ron anything about what might, or might not, have happened at Keeper tryouts."
"Good,” said Harry fervently. “Because he’ll just fall apart again, and we’ll lose the next match —"
"Quidditch!” said Hermione angrily. “Is that all boys care about? Cormac hasn’t asked me one single question about myself, no, I’ve just been treated to ‘A Hundred Great Saves Made by Cormac McLaggen’ nonstop ever since — oh no, here he comes!"
"Seen Hermione?"
"No, sorry,"
"Harry Potter!"
"Oh, hello,"
"My dear boy!” she said in a very carrying whisper. “The rumors! The stories! ‘The Chosen One’! Of course, I have known for a very long time. . . . The omens were never good, Harry. . . . But why have you not returned to Divination? For you, of all people, the subject is of the utmost importance!"
"Ah, Sybill, we all think our subject’s most important!” said a loud voice, and Slughorn appeared at Professor Trelawney’s other side, his face very red, his velvet hat a little askew, a glass of mead in one hand and an enormous mince pie in the other. “But I don’t think I’ve ever known such a natural at Potions!” said Slughorn, regarding Harry with a fond, if bloodshot, eye. “Instinctive, you know — like his mother! I’ve only ever taught a few with this kind of ability, I can tell you that, Sybill — why even Severus —"
"Stop skulking and come and join us, Severus!” hiccuped Slughorn happily. “I was just talking about Harry’s exceptional potion-making! Some credit must go to you, of course, you taught him for five years!"
"Funny, I never had the impression that I managed to teach Potter anything at all."
"Well, then, it’s natural ability!” shouted Slughorn. “You should have seen what he gave me, first lesson, Draught of Living Death — never had a student produce finer on a first attempt, I don’t think even you, Severus —"
"Really?"
"Remind me what other subjects you’re taking, Harry?"
"Defense Against the Dark Arts, Charms, Transfiguration, Herbology . . ."
"All the subjects required, in short, for an Auror,"
"Yeah, well, that’s what I’d like to do,"
"And a great one you’ll make too!"
"I don’t think you should be an Auror, Harry,” said Luna unexpectedly. Everybody looked at her. “The Aurors are part of the Rotfang Conspiracy, I thought everyone knew that. They’re working to bring down the Ministry of Magic from within using a combination of Dark Magic and gum disease."
"Professor Slughorn,” wheezed Filch, his jowls aquiver and the maniacal light of mischief-detection in his bulging eyes, “I discovered this boy lurking in an upstairs corridor. He claims to have been invited to your party and to have been delayed in setting out. Did you issue him with an invitation?"
"All right, I wasn’t invited!” he said angrily. “I was trying to gate-crash, happy?"
"No, I’m not!” said Filch, a statement at complete odds with the glee on his face. “You’re in trouble, you are! Didn’t the headmaster say that nighttime prowling’s out, unless you’ve got permission, didn’t he, eh?"
"That’s all right, Argus, that’s all right,” said Slughorn, waving a hand. “It’s Christmas, and it’s not a crime to want to come to a party. Just this once, we’ll forget any punishment; you may stay, Draco."
"It’s nothing, nothing,” said Slughorn, waving away Malfoy’s thanks. “I did know your grandfather, after all. . . ."
"He always spoke very highly of you, sir,” said Malfoy quickly. “Said you were the best potion-maker he’d ever known. . . ."
"I’d like a word with you, Draco,"
"Oh, now, Severus,” said Slughorn, hiccuping again, “it’s Christmas, don’t be too hard —"
"I’m his Head of House, and I shall decide how hard, or otherwise, to be,” said Snape curtly. “Follow me, Draco."
"I’ll be back in a bit, Luna — er — bathroom."
"All right,"
". . . cannot afford mistakes, Draco, because if you are expelled —"
"I didn’t have anything to do with it, all right?"
"I hope you are telling the truth, because it was both clumsy and foolish. Already you are suspected of having a hand in it."
"Who suspects me?” said Malfoy angrily. “For the last time, I didn’t do it, okay? That Bell girl must’ve had an enemy no one knows about — don’t look at me like that! I know what you’re doing, I’m not stupid, but it won’t work — I can stop you!"
"Ah . . . Aunt Bellatrix has been teaching you Occlumency, I see. What thoughts are you trying to conceal from your master, Draco?"
"I’m not trying to conceal anything from him, I just don’t want you butting in!"
"So that is why you have been avoiding me this term? You have feared my interference? You realize that, had anybody else failed to come to my office when I had told them repeatedly to be there, Draco —"
"So put me in detention! Report me to Dumbledore!"
"You know perfectly well that I do not wish to do either of those things."
"You’d better stop telling me to come to your office then!"
"Listen to me,” said Snape, his voice so low now that Harry had to push his ear very hard against the keyhole to hear. “I am trying to help you. I swore to your mother I would protect you. I made the Unbreakable Vow, Draco —"
"Looks like you’ll have to break it, then, because I don’t need your protection! It’s my job, he gave it to me and I’m doing it, I’ve got a plan and it’s going to work, it’s just taking a bit longer than I thought it would!"
"What is your plan?"
"It’s none of your business!"
"If you tell me what you are trying to do, I can assist you —"
"I’ve got all the assistance I need, thanks, I’m not alone!"
"You were certainly alone tonight, which was foolish in the extreme, wandering the corridors without lookouts or backup, these are elementary mistakes —"
"I would’ve had Crabbe and Goyle with me if you hadn’t put them in detention!"
"Keep your voice down!” spat Snape, for Malfoy’s voice had risen excitedly. “If your friends Crabbe and Goyle intend to pass their Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L. this time around, they will need to work a little harder than they are doing at pres —"
"What does it matter?” said Malfoy. “Defense Against the Dark Arts — it’s all just a joke, isn’t it, an act? Like any of us need protecting against the Dark Arts —"
"It is an act that is crucial to success, Draco!” said Snape. “Where do you think I would have been all these years, if I had not known how to act? Now listen to me! You are being incautious, wandering around at night, getting yourself caught, and if you are placing your reliance in assistants like Crabbe and Goyle —"
"They’re not the only ones, I’ve got other people on my side, better people!"
"Then why not confide in me, and I can —"
"I know what you’re up to! You want to steal my glory!"
"You are speaking like a child. I quite understand that your father’s capture and imprisonment has upset you, but —"
"If you ask that once more,” said Harry, “I’m going to stick this sprout —"
"I’m only checking!"
"Yes, Snape was offering to help him!” said Harry. “He said he’d promised Malfoy’s mother to protect him, that he’d made an Unbreakable Oath or something —"
"An Unbreakable Vow?” said Ron, looking stunned. “Nah, he can’t have. . . . Are you sure?"
"Yes, I’m sure,” said Harry. “Why, what does it mean?"
"Well, you can’t break an Unbreakable Vow. . . ."
"I’d worked that much out for myself, funnily enough. What happens if you break it, then?"
"You die,” said Ron simply. “Fred and George tried to get me to make one when I was about five. I nearly did too, I was holding hands with Fred and everything when Dad found us. He went mental,” said Ron, with a reminiscent gleam in his eyes. “Only time I’ve ever seen Dad as angry as Mum. Fred reckons his left buttock has never been the same since."
"Yeah, well, passing over Fred’s left buttock —"
"I beg your pardon?"
"Aaah, George, look at this. They’re using knives and everything. Bless them."
"I’ll be seventeen in two and a bit months’ time,” said Ron grumpily, “and then I’ll be able to do it by magic!"
"But meanwhile,” said George, sitting down at the kitchen table and putting his feet up on it, “we can enjoy watching you demonstrate the correct use of a — whoops-a-daisy!"
"You made me do that!” said Ron angrily, sucking his cut thumb. “You wait, when I’m seventeen —"
"I’m sure you’ll dazzle us all with hitherto unsuspected magical skills,"
"And speaking of hitherto unsuspected skills, Ronald,” said George, “what is this we hear from Ginny about you and a young lady called — unless our information is faulty — Lavender Brown?"
"Mind your own business."
"What a snappy retort,” said Fred. “I really don’t know how you think of them. No, what we wanted to know was . . . how did it happen?"
"What d’you mean?"
"Did she have an accident or something?"
"What?"
"Well, how did she sustain such extensive brain damage? Careful, now!"
"Ron!” she said furiously. “Don’t you ever let me see you throwing knives again!"
"I won’t,” said Ron, “let you see,"
"Fred, George, I’m sorry, dears, but Remus is arriving tonight, so Bill will have to squeeze in with you two."
"No problem,"
"Then, as Charlie isn’t coming home, that just leaves Harry and Ron in the attic, and if Fleur shares with Ginny —"
"— that’ll make Ginny’s Christmas —"
"— everyone should be comfortable. Well, they’ll have a bed, anyway,"
"Percy definitely not showing his ugly face, then?"
"No, he’s busy, I expect, at the Ministry."
"Or he’s the world’s biggest prat,” said Fred, as Mrs. Weasley left the kitchen. “One of the two. Well, let’s get going, then, George."
"What are you two up to?” asked Ron. “Can’t you help us with these sprouts? You could just use your wand and then we’ll be free too!"
"No, I don’t think we can do that,” said Fred seriously. “It’s very character-building stuff, learning to peel sprouts without magic, makes you appreciate how difficult it is for Muggles and Squibs —"
"— and if you want people to help you, Ron,” added George, throwing the paper airplane at him, “I wouldn’t chuck knives at them. Just a little hint. We’re off to the village, there’s a very pretty girl working in the paper shop who thinks my card tricks are something marvelous . . . almost like real magic. . . ."
"Gits,” said Ron darkly, watching Fred and George setting off across the snowy yard. “Would’ve only taken them ten seconds and then we could’ve gone too."
"I couldn’t,” said Harry. “I promised Dumbledore I wouldn’t wander off while I’m staying here."
"Oh yeah,” said Ron. He peeled a few more sprouts and then said, “Are you going to tell Dumbledore what you heard Snape and Malfoy saying to each other?"
"Yep,” said Harry. “I’m going to tell anyone who can put a stop to it, and Dumbledore’s top of the list. I might have another word with your dad too."
"Pity you didn’t hear what Malfoy’s actually doing, though."
"I couldn’t have done, could I? That was the whole point, he was refusing to tell Snape."
"’Course, you know what they’ll all say? Dad and Dumbledore and all of them? They’ll say Snape isn’t really trying to help Malfoy, he was just trying to find out what Malfoy’s up to."
"They didn’t hear him,” said Harry flatly. “No one’s that good an actor, not even Snape."
"Yeah . . . I’m just saying, though,"
"You think I’m right, though?"
"Yeah, I do!” said Ron hastily. “Seriously, I do! But they’re all convinced Snape’s in the Order, aren’t they?"
"I told you so,"
"A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love,"
"We danced to this when we were eighteen!” said Mrs. Weasley, wiping her eyes on her knitting. “Do you remember, Arthur?"
"Mphf?” said Mr. Weasley, whose head had been nodding over the satsuma he was peeling. “Oh yes . . . marvelous tune . . ."
"Sorry about this,” he said, jerking his head toward the wireless as Celestina broke into the chorus. “Be over soon."
"No problem,” said Harry, grinning. “Has it been busy at the Ministry?"
"Very,” said Mr. Weasley. “I wouldn’t mind if we were getting anywhere, but of the three arrests we’ve made in the last couple of months, I doubt that one of them is a genuine Death Eater — only don’t repeat that, Harry,"
"They’re not still holding Stan Shunpike, are they?"
"I’m afraid so,” said Mr. Weasley. “I know Dumbledore’s tried appealing directly to Scrimgeour about Stan. . . . I mean, anybody who has actually interviewed him agrees that he’s about as much a Death Eater as this satsuma . . . but the top levels want to look as though they’re making some progress, and ‘three arrests’ sounds better than ‘three mistaken arrests and releases’ . . . but again, this is all top secret. . . ."
"I won’t say anything,” said Harry. He hesitated for a moment, wondering how best to embark on what he wanted to say; as he marshaled his thoughts, Celestina Warbeck began a ballad called “You Charmed the Heart Right Out of Me."
"Mr. Weasley, you know what I told you at the station when we were setting off for school?"
"I checked, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley at once. “I went and searched the Malfoys’ house. There was nothing, either broken or whole, that shouldn’t have been there."
"Yeah, I know, I saw in the Prophet that you’d looked . . . but this is something different. . . . Well, something more . . ."
"Has it occurred to you, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, “that Snape was simply pretending — ?"
"Pretending to offer help, so that he could find out what Malfoy’s up to?” said Harry quickly. “Yeah, I thought you’d say that. But how do we know?"
"It isn’t our business to know,” said Lupin unexpectedly. He had turned his back on the fire now and faced Harry across Mr. Weasley. “It’s Dumbledore’s business. Dumbledore trusts Severus, and that ought to be good enough for all of us."
"But,” said Harry, “just say — just say Dumbledore’s wrong about Snape —"
"People have said it, many times. It comes down to whether or not you trust Dumbledore’s judgment. I do; therefore, I trust Severus."
"But Dumbledore can make mistakes,” argued Harry. “He says it himself. And you” — he looked Lupin straight in the eye — “do you honestly like Snape?"
"I neither like nor dislike Severus,” said Lupin. “No, Harry, I am speaking the truth,” he added, as Harry pulled a skeptical expression. “We shall never be bosom friends, perhaps; after all that happened between James and Sirius and Severus, there is too much bitterness there. But I do not forget that during the year I taught at Hogwarts, Severus made the Wolfsbane Potion for me every month, made it perfectly, so that I did not have to suffer as I usually do at the full moon."
"But he ‘accidentally’ let it slip that you’re a werewolf, so you had to leave!"
"The news would have leaked out anyway. We both know he wanted my job, but he could have wreaked much worse damage on me by tampering with the potion. He kept me healthy. I must be grateful."
"Maybe he didn’t dare mess with the potion with Dumbledore watching him!"
"You are determined to hate him, Harry,” said Lupin with a faint smile. “And I understand; with James as your father, with Sirius as your godfather, you have inherited an old prejudice. By all means tell Dumbledore what you have told Arthur and me, but do not expect him to share your view of the matter; do not even expect him to be surprised by what you tell him. It might have been on Dumbledore’s orders that Severus questioned Draco."
"Eez eet over?” said Fleur loudly. “Thank goodness, what an ’orrible —"
"Shall we have a nightcap, then?” asked Mr. Weasley loudly, leaping to his feet. “Who wants eggnog?"
"What have you been up to lately?"
"Oh, I’ve been underground,” said Lupin. “Almost literally. That’s why I haven’t been able to write, Harry; sending letters to you would have been something of a giveaway."
"What do you mean?"
"I’ve been living among my fellows, my equals,” said Lupin. “Werewolves,” he added, at Harry’s look of incomprehension. “Nearly all of them are on Voldemort’s side. Dumbledore wanted a spy and here I was . . . ready-made."
"I am not complaining; it is necessary work and who can do it better than I? However, it has been difficult gaining their trust. I bear the unmistakable signs of having tried to live among wizards, you see, whereas they have shunned normal society and live on the margins, stealing — and sometimes killing — to eat."
"How come they like Voldemort?"
"They think that, under his rule, they will have a better life,” said Lupin. “And it is hard to argue with Greyback out there. . . ."
"Who’s Greyback?"
"You haven’t heard of him?” Lupin’s hands closed convulsively in his lap. “Fenrir Greyback is, perhaps, the most savage werewolf alive today. He regards it as his mission in life to bite and to contaminate as many people as possible; he wants to create enough werewolves to overcome the wizards. Voldemort has promised him prey in return for his services. Greyback specializes in children. . . . Bite them young, he says, and raise them away from their parents, raise them to hate normal wizards. Voldemort has threatened to unleash him upon people’s sons and daughters; it is a threat that usually produces good results."
"It was Greyback who bit me."
"What?” said Harry, astonished. “When — when you were a kid, you mean?"
"Yes. My father had offended him. I did not know, for a very long time, the identity of the werewolf who had attacked me; I even felt pity for him, thinking that he had had no control, knowing by then how it felt to transform. But Greyback is not like that. At the full moon, he positions himself close to victims, ensuring that he is near enough to strike. He plans it all. And this is the man Voldemort is using to marshal the werewolves. I cannot pretend that my particular brand of reasoned argument is making much headway against Greyback’s insistence that we werewolves deserve blood, that we ought to revenge ourselves on normal people."
"But you are normal!” said Harry fiercely. “You’ve just got a — a problem —"
"Sometimes you remind me a lot of James. He called it my ‘furry little problem’ in company. Many people were under the impression that I owned a badly behaved rabbit."
"Have you ever heard of someone called the Half-Blood Prince?"
"The Half-Blood what?"
"Prince,"
"There are no Wizarding princes,” said Lupin, now smiling. “Is this a title you’re thinking of adopting? I should have thought being ‘the Chosen One’ would be enough."
"It’s nothing to do with me!” said Harry indignantly. “The Half-Blood Prince is someone who used to go to Hogwarts, I’ve got his old Potions book. He wrote spells all over it, spells he invented. One of them was Levicorpus —"
"Oh, that one had a great vogue during my time at Hogwarts,” said Lupin reminiscently. “There were a few months in my fifth year when you couldn’t move for being hoisted into the air by your ankle."
"My dad used it,” said Harry. “I saw him in the Pensieve, he used it on Snape."
"Yes,” he said, “but he wasn’t the only one. As I say, it was very popular. . . . You know how these spells come and go. . . ."
"But it sounds like it was invented while you were at school,"
"Not necessarily,” said Lupin. “Jinxes go in and out of fashion like everything else."
"James was a pureblood, Harry, and I promise you, he never asked us to call him ‘Prince.’"
"And it wasn’t Sirius? Or you?"
"Definitely not."
"Oh.” Harry stared into the fire. “I just thought — well, he’s helped me out a lot in Potions classes, the Prince has."
"How old is this book, Harry?"
"I dunno, I’ve never checked."
"Well, perhaps that will give you some clue as to when the Prince was at Hogwarts,"
"A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love,"
"She’s got to be joking. . . ."
"What’s that?"
"It’s from Lavender,” said Ron, sounding revolted. “She can’t honestly think I’d wear . . ."
"Nice,” he said. “Classy. You should definitely wear it in front of Fred and George."
"If you tell them,” said Ron, shoving the necklace out of sight under his pillow, “I — I — I’ll —"
"Stutter at me?” said Harry, grinning. “Come on, would I?"
"How could she think I’d like something like that, though?"
"Well, think back,” said Harry. “Have you ever let it slip that you’d like to go out in public with the words ‘My Sweetheart’ round your neck?"
"Well . . . we don’t really talk much,” said Ron. “It’s mainly . . ."
"Snogging,"
"Well, yeah,” said Ron. He hesitated a moment, then said, “Is Hermione really going out with McLaggen?"
"I dunno,” said Harry. “They were at Slughorn’s party together, but I don’t think it went that well."
"D’you reckon this is safe to open?"
"Can’t be anything dangerous, all our mail’s still being searched at the Ministry,"
"I didn’t think of giving Kreacher anything. Do people usually give their house-elves Christmas presents?"
"Hermione would,” said Ron. “But let’s wait and see what it is before you start feeling guilty."
"Nice,” said Ron, roaring with laughter. “Very thoughtful."
"I’d rather have them than that necklace,"
"Fred and George gave them to me! Aren’t they beautiful?"
"Well, we find we appreciate you more and more, Mum, now we’re washing our own socks,” said George, waving an airy hand. “Parsnips, Remus?"
"Harry, you’ve got a maggot in your hair,"
"’Ow ’orrible,"
"Yes, isn’t it?” said Ron. “Gravy, Fleur?"
"You are as bad as zat Tonks,” said Fleur to Ron, when she had finished kissing Bill in thanks. “She is always knocking —"
"I invited dear Tonks to come along today,” said Mrs. Weasley, setting down the carrots with unnecessary force and glaring at Fleur. “But she wouldn’t come. Have you spoken to her lately, Remus?"
"No, I haven’t been in contact with anybody very much,” said Lupin. “But Tonks has got her own family to go to, hasn’t she?"
"Hmmm,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Maybe. I got the impression she was planning to spend Christmas alone, actually."
"Tonks’s Patronus has changed its form,” he told him. “Snape said so anyway. I didn’t know that could happen. Why would your Patronus change?"
"Sometimes . . . a great shock . . . an emotional upheaval . . ."
"It looked big, and it had four legs,” said Harry, struck by a sudden thought and lowering his voice. “Hey . . . it couldn’t be — ?"
"Arthur!” said Mrs. Weasley suddenly. She had risen from her chair; her hand was pressed over her heart and she was staring out of the kitchen window. “Arthur — it’s Percy!"
"What?"
"Arthur, he’s — he’s with the Minister!"
"Merry Christmas, Mother."
"Oh, Percy!"
"You must forgive this intrusion,” he said, when Mrs. Weasley looked around at him, beaming and wiping her eyes. “Percy and I were in the vicinity — working, you know — and he couldn’t resist dropping in and seeing you all."
"Please, come in, sit down, Minister!” fluttered Mrs. Weasley, straightening her hat. “Have a little purkey, or some tooding. . . . I mean —"
"No, no, my dear Molly,” said Scrimgeour. Harry guessed that he had checked her name with Percy before they entered the house. “I don’t want to intrude, wouldn’t be here at all if Percy hadn’t wanted to see you all so badly. . . ."
"Oh, Perce!"
". . . We’ve only looked in for five minutes, so I’ll have a stroll around the yard while you catch up with Percy. No, no, I assure you I don’t want to butt in! Well, if anybody cared to show me your charming garden . . . Ah, that young man’s finished, why doesn’t he take a stroll with me?"
"Yeah, all right,"
"It’s fine,” he said quietly, as he passed Lupin, who had half risen from his chair. “Fine,"
"Wonderful!” said Scrimgeour, standing back to let Harry pass through the door ahead of him. “We’ll just take a turn around the garden, and Percy and I’ll be off. Carry on, everyone!"
"Charming,” said Scrimgeour, stopping at the garden fence and looking out over the snowy lawn and the indistinguishable plants. “Charming."
"I’ve wanted to meet you for a very long time,” said Scrimgeour, after a few moments. “Did you know that?"
"No,"
"Oh yes, for a very long time. But Dumbledore has been very protective of you,” said Scrimgeour. “Natural, of course, natural, after what you’ve been through. . . . Especially what happened at the Ministry . . ."
"I have been hoping for an occasion to talk to you ever since I gained office, but Dumbledore has — most understandably, as I say — prevented this."
"The rumors that have flown around!” said Scrimgeour. “Well, of course, we both know how these stories get distorted . . . all these whispers of a prophecy . . . of you being ‘the Chosen One’ . . ."
". . . I assume that Dumbledore has discussed these matters with you?"
"Yeah, we’ve discussed it."
"Have you, have you . . .” said Scrimgeour. Harry could see, out of the corner of his eye, Scrimgeour squinting at him, so he pretended to be very interested in a gnome that had just poked its head out from underneath a frozen rhododendron. “And what has Dumbledore told you, Harry?"
"Sorry, but that’s between us,” said Harry. He kept his voice as pleasant as he could, and Scrimgeour’s tone, too, was light and friendly as he said, “Oh, of course, if it’s a question of confidences, I wouldn’t want you to divulge . . . no, no . . . and in any case, does it really matter whether you are ‘the Chosen One’ or not?"
"I don’t really know what you mean, Minister."
"Well, of course, to you it will matter enormously,” said Scrimgeour with a laugh. “But to the Wizarding community at large . . . it’s all perception, isn’t it? It’s what people believe that’s important."
"People believe you are ‘the Chosen One,’ you see,” said Scrimgeour. “They think you quite the hero — which, of course, you are, Harry, chosen or not! How many times have you faced He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named now? Well, anyway,” he pressed on, without waiting for a reply, “the point is, you are a symbol of hope for many, Harry. The idea that there is somebody out there who might be able, who might even be destined, to destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named — well, naturally, it gives people a lift. And I can’t help but feel that, once you realize this, you might consider it, well, almost a duty, to stand alongside the Ministry, and give everyone a boost."
"Funny little chaps, aren’t they? But what say you, Harry?"
"I don’t exactly understand what you want,” said Harry slowly. “‘Stand alongside the Ministry’ . . . What does that mean?"
"Oh, well, nothing at all onerous, I assure you,” said Scrimgeour. “If you were to be seen popping in and out of the Ministry from time to time, for instance, that would give the right impression. And of course, while you were there, you would have ample opportunity to speak to Gawain Robards, my successor as Head of the Auror office. Dolores Umbridge has told me that you cherish an ambition to become an Auror. Well, that could be arranged very easily. . . ."
"So basically,” he said, as though he just wanted to clarify a few points, “you’d like to give the impression that I’m working for the Ministry?"
"It would give everyone a lift to think you were more involved, Harry,” said Scrimgeour, sounding relieved that Harry had cottoned on so quickly. “‘The Chosen One,’ you know . . . It’s all about giving people hope, the feeling that exciting things are happening. . . ."
"But if I keep running in and out of the Ministry,” said Harry, still endeavoring to keep his voice friendly, “won’t that seem as though I approve of what the Ministry’s up to?"
"Well,” said Scrimgeour, frowning slightly, “well, yes, that’s partly why we’d like —"
"No, I don’t think that’ll work,” said Harry pleasantly. “You see, I don’t like some of the things the Ministry’s doing. Locking up Stan Shunpike, for instance."
"I would not expect you to understand,” he said, and he was not as successful at keeping anger out of his voice as Harry had been. “These are dangerous times, and certain measures need to be taken. You are sixteen years old —"
"Dumbledore’s a lot older than sixteen, and he doesn’t think Stan should be in Azkaban either,” said Harry. “You’re making Stan a scapegoat, just like you want to make me a mascot."
"I see. You prefer — like your hero, Dumbledore — to disassociate yourself from the Ministry?"
"I don’t want to be used,"
"Some would say it’s your duty to be used by the Ministry!"
"Yeah, and others might say it’s your duty to check that people really are Death Eaters before you chuck them in prison,” said Harry, his temper rising now. “You’re doing what Barty Crouch did. You never get it right, you people, do you? Either we’ve got Fudge, pretending everything’s lovely while people get murdered right under his nose, or we’ve got you, chucking the wrong people into jail and trying to pretend you’ve got ‘the Chosen One’ working for you!"
"So you’re not ‘the Chosen One’?"
"I thought you said it didn’t matter either way?” said Harry, with a bitter laugh. “Not to you anyway."
"I shouldn’t have said that,” said Scrimgeour quickly. “It was tactless —"
"No, it was honest,” said Harry. “One of the only honest things you’ve said to me. You don’t care whether I live or die, but you do care that I help you convince everyone you’re winning the war against Voldemort. I haven’t forgotten, Minister. . . ."
"I don’t remember you rushing to my defense when I was trying to tell everyone Voldemort was back. The Ministry wasn’t so keen to be pals last year."
"What is Dumbledore up to?” said Scrimgeour brusquely. “Where does he go when he is absent from Hogwarts?"
"No idea,"
"And you wouldn’t tell me if you knew,” said Scrimgeour, “would you?"
"No, I wouldn’t,"
"Well, then, I shall have to see whether I can’t find out by other means."
"You can try,” said Harry indifferently. “But you seem cleverer than Fudge, so I’d have thought you’d have learned from his mistakes. He tried interfering at Hogwarts. You might have noticed he’s not Minister anymore, but Dumbledore’s still headmaster. I’d leave Dumbledore alone, if I were you."
"Well, it is clear to me that he has done a very good job on you,” said Scrimgeour, his eyes cold and hard behind his wire-rimmed glasses. “Dumbledore’s man through and through, aren’t you, Potter?"
"Yeah, I am,” said Harry. “Glad we straightened that out."
"Don’t cry, Mum,” said Ginny, patting her on the back as Mrs. Weasley sobbed into her shoulder. “It’s okay. . . ."
"Yeah, don’t worry about us,” said Ron, permitting his mother to plant a very wet kiss on his cheek, “or about Percy. He’s such a prat, it’s not really a loss, is it?"
"Promise me you’ll look after yourself. . . . Stay out of trouble. . . ."
"I always do, Mrs. Weasley,” said Harry. “I like a quiet life, you know me."
"Be good, then, all of you. . . ."
"Hogwarts!"
"Evening, Potter. Try not to get too much ash on the carpet."
"No, Professor."
"Baubles,"
"No,"
"What d’you mean, ‘no’?"
"There is a new password,” she said. “And please don’t shout."
"But we’ve been away, how’re we supposed to — ?"
"Harry! Ginny!"
"I got back a couple of hours ago, I’ve just been down to visit Hagrid and Buck — I mean Witherwings,” she said breathlessly. “Did you have a good Christmas?"
"Yeah,” said Ron at once, “pretty eventful, Rufus Scrim —"
"I’ve got something for you, Harry,” said Hermione, neither looking at Ron nor giving any sign that she had heard him. “Oh, hang on — password. Abstinence."
"Precisely,"
"What’s up with her?"
"Overindulged over Christmas, apparently,” said Hermione, rolling her eyes as she led the way into the packed common room. “She and her friend Violet drank their way through all the wine in that picture of drunk monks down by the Charms corridor. Anyway . . ."
"Great,” said Harry, unrolling it at once to discover that his next lesson with Dumbledore was scheduled for the following night. “I’ve got loads to tell him — and you. Let’s sit down —"
"Won-Won!” and Lavender Brown came hurtling out of nowhere and flung herself into Ron’s arms. Several onlookers sniggered; Hermione gave a tinkling laugh and said, “There’s a table over here. . . . Coming, Ginny?"
"No, thanks, I said I’d meet Dean,"
"So how was your Christmas?"
"Oh, fine,” she shrugged. “Nothing special. How was it at Won-Won’s?"
"I’ll tell you in a minute,” said Harry. “Look, Hermione, can’t you — ?"
"No, I can’t,” she said flatly. “So don’t even ask."
"I thought maybe, you know, over Christmas —"
"It was the Fat Lady who drank a vat of five-hundred-year-old wine, Harry, not me. So what was this important news you wanted to tell me?"
"Don’t you think — ?"
"— he was pretending to offer help so that he could trick Malfoy into telling him what he’s doing?"
"Well, yes,"
"Ron’s dad and Lupin think so,” Harry said grudgingly. “But this definitely proves Malfoy’s planning something, you can’t deny that."
"No, I can’t,"
"And he’s acting on Voldemort’s orders, just like I said!"
"Hmm . . . did either of them actually mention Voldemort’s name?"
"I’m not sure . . . Snape definitely said ‘your master,’ and who else would that be?"
"I don’t know,” said Hermione, biting her lip. “Maybe his father?"
"How’s Lupin?"
"Not great,” said Harry, and he told her all about Lupin’s mission among the werewolves and the difficulties he was facing. “Have you heard of this Fenrir Greyback?"
"Yes, I have!” said Hermione, sounding startled. “And so have you, Harry!"
"When, History of Magic? You know full well I never listened . . ."
"No, no, not History of Magic — Malfoy threatened Borgin with him!” said Hermione. “Back in Knockturn Alley, don’t you remember? He told Borgin that Greyback was an old family friend and that he’d be checking up on Borgin’s progress!"
"I forgot! But this proves Malfoy’s a Death Eater, how else could he be in contact with Greyback and telling him what to do?"
"It is pretty suspicious,” breathed Hermione. “Unless . . ."
"Oh, come on,” said Harry in exasperation, “you can’t get round this one!"
"Well . . . there is the possibility it was an empty threat."
"You’re unbelievable, you are,” said Harry, shaking his head. “We’ll see who’s right. . . . You’ll be eating your words, Hermione, just like the Ministry. Oh yeah, I had a row with Rufus Scrimgeour as well. . . ."
"Guess who, Won-Won?"
"So — Apparition,” said Ron, his tone making it perfectly plain that Harry was not to mention what had just happened. “Should be a laugh, eh?"
"I dunno,” said Harry. “Maybe it’s better when you do it yourself, I didn’t enjoy it much when Dumbledore took me along for the ride."
"I forgot you’d already done it. . . . I’d better pass my test first time,” said Ron, looking anxious. “Fred and George did."
"Charlie failed, though, didn’t he?"
"Yeah, but Charlie’s bigger than me” — Ron held his arms out from his body as though he was a gorilla — “so Fred and George didn’t go on about it much . . . not to his face anyway . . ."
"When can we take the actual test?"
"Soon as we’re seventeen. That’s only March for me!"
"Yeah, but you wouldn’t be able to Apparate in here, not in the castle . . ."
"Not the point, is it? Everyone would know I could Apparate if I wanted."
"How cool will it be when we can just —” Seamus clicked his fingers to indicate disappearance. “Me cousin Fergus does it just to annoy me, you wait till I can do it back . . . He’ll never have another peaceful moment. . . ."
"Harry’s already Apparated,” Ron told a slightly abashed Seamus, after Professor Flitwick had dried himself off with a wave of his wand and set Seamus lines: “I am a wizard, not a baboon brandishing a stick.” “Dum — er — someone took him. Side-Along-Apparition, you know."
"Whoa!"
"I hear that you met the Minister of Magic over Christmas?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “He’s not very happy with me."
"No,” sighed Dumbledore. “He is not very happy with me either. We must try not to sink beneath our anguish, Harry, but battle on."
"He wanted me to tell the Wizarding community that the Ministry’s doing a wonderful job."
"It was Fudge’s idea originally, you know. During his last days in office, when he was trying desperately to cling to his post, he sought a meeting with you, hoping that you would give him your support —"
"After everything Fudge did last year?” said Harry angrily. “After Umbridge?"
"I told Cornelius there was no chance of it, but the idea did not die when he left office. Within hours of Scrimgeour’s appointment we met and he demanded that I arrange a meeting with you —"
"So that’s why you argued!” Harry blurted out. “It was in the Daily Prophet."
"The Prophet is bound to report the truth occasionally,” said Dumbledore, “if only accidentally. Yes, that was why we argued. Well, it appears that Rufus found a way to corner you at last."
"He accused me of being ‘Dumbledore’s man through and through.’"
"How very rude of him."
"I told him I was."
"I am very touched, Harry."
"Scrimgeour wanted to know where you go when you’re not at Hogwarts,"
"Yes, he is very nosy about that,” said Dumbledore, now sounding cheerful, and Harry thought it safe to look up again. “He has even attempted to have me followed. Amusing, really. He set Dawlish to tail me. It wasn’t kind. I have already been forced to jinx Dawlish once; I did it again with the greatest regret."
"So they still don’t know where you go?"
"No, they don’t, and the time is not quite right for you to know either. Now, I suggest we press on, unless there’s anything else — ?"
"There is, actually, sir,” said Harry. “It’s about Malfoy and Snape."
"Professor Snape, Harry."
"Yes, sir. I overheard them during Professor Slughorn’s party . . . well, I followed them, actually. . . ."
"Thank you for telling me this, Harry, but I suggest that you put it out of your mind. I do not think that it is of great importance."
"Not of great importance?” repeated Harry incredulously. “Professor, did you understand — ?"
"Yes, Harry, blessed as I am with extraordinary brainpower, I understood everything you told me,” said Dumbledore, a little sharply. “I think you might even consider the possibility that I understood more than you did. Again, I am glad that you have confided in me, but let me reassure you that you have not told me anything that causes me disquiet."
"So, sir,” said Harry, in what he hoped was a polite, calm voice, “you definitely still trust — ?"
"I have been tolerant enough to answer that question already,” said Dumbledore, but he did not sound very tolerant anymore. “My answer has not changed."
"I should think not,"
"And now, Harry, I must insist that we press on. I have more important things to discuss with you this evening."
"Ah, Harry, how often this happens, even between the best of friends! Each of us believes that what he has to say is much more important than anything the other might have to contribute!"
"I don’t think what you’ve got to say is unimportant, sir,"
"Well, you are quite right, because it is not,” said Dumbledore briskly. “I have two more memories to show you this evening, both obtained with enormous difficulty, and the second of them is, I think, the most important I have collected."
"So,"
"Well, the start of the school year arrived and with it came Tom Riddle, a quiet boy in his secondhand robes, who lined up with the other first years to be sorted. He was placed in Slytherin House almost the moment that the Sorting Hat touched his head,"
"However, if he was frightening or impressing fellow Slytherins with displays of Parseltongue in their common room, no hint of it reached the staff. He showed no sign of outward arrogance or aggression at all. As an unusually talented and very good-looking orphan, he naturally drew attention and sympathy from the staff almost from the moment of his arrival. He seemed polite, quiet, and thirsty for knowledge. Nearly all were most favorably impressed by him."
"Didn’t you tell them, sir, what he’d been like when you met him at the orphanage?"
"No, I did not. Though he had shown no hint of remorse, it was possible that he felt sorry for how he had behaved before and was resolved to turn over a fresh leaf. I chose to give him that chance."
"But you didn’t really trust him, sir, did you? He told me . . . the Riddle who came out of that diary said, ‘Dumbledore never seemed to like me as much as the other teachers did.’"
"Let us say that I did not take it for granted that he was trustworthy,"
"I have not been able to find many memories of Riddle at Hogwarts,"
"All he had to go upon was the single name ‘Marvolo,’ which he knew from those who ran the orphanage had been his mother’s father’s name. Finally, after painstaking research through old books of Wizarding families, he discovered the existence of Slytherin’s surviving line. In the summer of his sixteenth year, he left the orphanage to which he returned annually and set off to find his Gaunt relatives. And now, Harry, if you will stand . . ."
"I was very lucky to collect this,” he said, as he poured the gleaming mass into the Pensieve. “As you will understand when we have experienced it. Shall we?"
"YOU!” he bellowed. “YOU!"
"Stop."
"You speak it?"
"Yes, I speak it,"
"Where is Marvolo?"
"Dead,” said the other. “Died years ago, didn’t he?"
"Who are you, then?"
"I’m Morfin, ain’t I?"
"Marvolo’s son?"
"’Course I am, then . . ."
"I thought you was that Muggle,” whispered Morfin. “You look mighty like that Muggle."
"What Muggle?"
"That Muggle what my sister took a fancy to, that Muggle what lives in the big house over the way,” said Morfin, and he spat unexpectedly upon the floor between them. “You look right like him. Riddle. But he’s older now, in ’e? He’s older’n you, now I think on it. . . ."
"He come back, see,"
"Riddle came back?"
"Ar, he left her, and serve her right, marrying filth!” said Morfin, spitting on the floor again. “Robbed us, mind, before she ran off! Where’s the locket, eh, where’s Slytherin’s locket?"
"Dishonored us, she did, that little slut! And who’re you, coming here and asking questions about all that? It’s over, innit. . . . It’s over. . . ."
"Is that all?” said Harry at once. “Why did it go dark, what happened?"
"Because Morfin could not remember anything from that point onward,"
"The Muggle authorities were perplexed. As far as I am aware, they do not know to this day how the Riddles died, for the Avada Kedavra curse does not usually leave any sign of damage. . . . The exception sits before me,"
"So the Ministry called upon Morfin. They did not need to question him, to use Veritaserum or Legilimency. He admitted to the murder on the spot, giving details only the murderer could know. He was proud, he said, to have killed the Muggles, had been awaiting his chance all these years. He handed over his wand, which was proved at once to have been used to kill the Riddles. And he permitted himself to be led off to Azkaban without a fight. All that disturbed him was the fact that his father’s ring had disappeared. ‘He’ll kill me for losing it,’ he told his captors over and over again. ‘He’ll kill me for losing his ring.’ And that, apparently, was all he ever said again. He lived out the remainder of his life in Azkaban, lamenting the loss of Marvolo’s last heirloom, and is buried beside the prison, alongside the other poor souls who have expired within its walls."
"So Voldemort stole Morfin’s wand and used it?"
"That’s right,” said Dumbledore. “We have no memories to show us this, but I think we can be fairly sure what happened. Voldemort Stupefied his uncle, took his wand, and proceeded across the valley to ‘the big house over the way.’ There he murdered the Muggle man who had abandoned his witch mother, and, for good measure, his Muggle grandparents, thus obliterating the last of the unworthy Riddle line and revenging himself upon the father who never wanted him. Then he returned to the Gaunt hovel, performed the complex bit of magic that would implant a false memory in his uncle’s mind, laid Morfin’s wand beside its unconscious owner, pocketed the ancient ring he wore, and departed."
"And Morfin never realized he hadn’t done it?"
"Never,” said Dumbledore. “He gave, as I say, a full and boastful confession."
"But he had this real memory in him all the time!"
"Yes, but it took a great deal of skilled Legilimency to coax it out of him,” said Dumbledore, “and why should anybody delve further into Morfin’s mind when he had already confessed to the crime? However, I was able to secure a visit to Morfin in the last weeks of his life, by which time I was attempting to discover as much as I could about Voldemort’s past. I extracted this memory with difficulty. When I saw what it contained, I attempted to use it to secure Morfin’s release from Azkaban. Before the Ministry reached their decision, however, Morfin had died."
"But how come the Ministry didn’t realize that Voldemort had done all that to Morfin?” Harry asked angrily. “He was underage at the time, wasn’t he? I thought they could detect underage magic!"
"You are quite right — they can detect magic, but not the perpetrator: You will remember that you were blamed by the Ministry for the Hover Charm that was, in fact, cast by —"
"Dobby,” growled Harry; this injustice still rankled. “So if you’re underage and you do magic inside an adult witch or wizard’s house, the Ministry won’t know?"
"They will certainly be unable to tell who performed the magic,” said Dumbledore, smiling slightly at the look of great indignation on Harry’s face. “They rely on witch and wizard parents to enforce their offspring’s obedience while within their walls."
"Well, that’s rubbish,” snapped Harry. “Look what happened here, look what happened to Morfin!"
"I agree,” said Dumbledore. “Whatever Morfin was, he did not deserve to die as he did, blamed for murders he had not committed. But it is getting late, and I want you to see this other memory before we part. . . ."
"This will not take long,” said Dumbledore, when he had finally emptied the phial. “We shall be back before you know it. Once more into the Pensieve, then . . ."
"Sir, is it true that Professor Merrythought is retiring?"
"Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell you,” said Slughorn, wagging a reproving, sugar-covered finger at Riddle, though ruining the effect slightly by winking. “I must say, I’d like to know where you get your information, boy, more knowledgeable than half the staff, you are."
"What with your uncanny ability to know things you shouldn’t, and your careful flattery of the people who matter — thank you for the pineapple, by the way, you’re quite right, it is my favorite —"
"You’ll go wrong, boy, mark my words."
"Good gracious, is it that time already?” said Slughorn. “You’d better get going, boys, or we’ll all be in trouble. Lestrange, I want your essay by tomorrow or it’s detention. Same goes for you, Avery."
"Look sharp, Tom,” said Slughorn, turning around and finding him still present. “You don’t want to be caught out of bed out of hours, and you a prefect . . ."
"Sir, I wanted to ask you something."
"Ask away, then, m’boy, ask away. . . ."
"Sir, I wondered what you know about . . . about Horcruxes?"
"I don’t know anything about Horcruxes and I wouldn’t tell you if I did! Now get out of here at once and don’t let me catch you mentioning them again!"
"Well, that’s that,” said Dumbledore placidly beside Harry. “Time to go."
"That’s all there is?"
"As you might have noticed,” said Dumbledore, reseating himself behind his desk, “that memory has been tampered with."
"Tampered with?"
"Certainly,” said Dumbledore. “Professor Slughorn has meddled with his own recollections."
"But why would he do that?"
"Because, I think, he is ashamed of what he remembers,"
"And so, for the first time, I am giving you homework, Harry. It will be your job to persuade Professor Slughorn to divulge the real memory, which will undoubtedly be our most crucial piece of information of all."
"But surely, sir,” he said, keeping his voice as respectful as possible, “you don’t need me — you could use Legilimency . . . or Veritaserum. . . ."
"Professor Slughorn is an extremely able wizard who will be expecting both,"
"No, I think it would be foolish to attempt to wrest the truth from Professor Slughorn by force, and might do much more harm than good; I do not wish him to leave Hogwarts. However, he has his weaknesses like the rest of us, and I believe that you are the one person who might be able to penetrate his defenses. It is most important that we secure the true memory, Harry. . . . How important, we will only know when we have seen the real thing. So, good luck . . . and good night."
"Good night, sir."
"I can’t see why the boy should be able to do it better than you, Dumbledore."
"I wouldn’t expect you to, Phineas,"
"He loves you,” he said over breakfast, waving an airy forkful of fried egg. “Won’t refuse you anything, will he? Not his little Potions Prince. Just hang back after class this afternoon and ask him."
"He must be determined to hide what really happened if Dumbledore couldn’t get it out of him,” she said in a low voice, as they stood in the deserted, snowy courtyard at break. “Horcruxes . . . Horcruxes . . . I’ve never even heard of them. . . ."
"You haven’t?"
"They must be really advanced Dark Magic, or why would Voldemort have wanted to know about them? I think it’s going to be difficult to get the information, Harry, you’ll have to be very careful about how you approach Slughorn, think out a strategy. . . ."
"Ron reckons I should just hang back after Potions this afternoon. . . ."
"Oh, well, if Won-Won thinks that, you’d better do it,” she said, flaring up at once. “After all, when has Won-Won’s judgment ever been faulty?"
"Hermione, can’t you — ?"
"No!"
"What’ve you done?"
"Settle down, settle down, please! Quickly, now, lots of work to get through this afternoon! Golpalott’s Third Law . . . who can tell me — ? But Miss Granger can, of course!"
"Golpalott’s-Third-Law-states-that-the-antidote-for-a-blended-poison-will-be-equal-to-more-than-the-sum-of-the-antidotes-for-each-of-the-separate-components."
"Precisely!” beamed Slughorn. “Ten points for Gryffindor! Now, if we accept Golpalott’s Third Law as true . . ."
". . . which means, of course, that assuming we have achieved correct identification of the potion’s ingredients by Scarpin’s Revelaspell, our primary aim is not the relatively simple one of selecting antidotes to those ingredients in and of themselves, but to find that added component that will, by an almost alchemical process, transform these disparate elements —"
". . . and so,” finished Slughorn, “I want each of you to come and take one of these phials from my desk. You are to create an antidote for the poison within it before the end of the lesson. Good luck, and don’t forget your protective gloves!"
"It’s a shame that the Prince won’t be able to help you much with this, Harry,” she said brightly as she straightened up. “You have to understand the principles involved this time. No shortcuts or cheats!"
"You sure the Prince hasn’t got any tips?"
"Nothing,"
"Specialis Revelio!"
"A stone taken from the stomach of a goat, which will protect from most poisons."
"Two minutes left, everyone!"
"Time’s . . . UP!” called Slughorn genially. “Well, let’s see how you’ve done! Blaise . . . what have you got for me?"
"And you, Harry,” he said. “What have you got to show me?"
"You’ve got nerve, boy!” he boomed, taking the bezoar and holding it up so that the class could see it. “Oh, you’re like your mother. . . . Well, I can’t fault you. . . . A bezoar would certainly act as an antidote to all these potions!"
"And you thought of a bezoar all by yourself, did you, Harry?"
"That’s the individual spirit a real potion-maker needs!” said Slughorn happily, before Harry could reply. “Just like his mother, she had the same intuitive grasp of potion-making, it’s undoubtedly from Lily he gets it. . . . Yes, Harry, yes, if you’ve got a bezoar to hand, of course that would do the trick . . . although as they don’t work on everything, and are pretty rare, it’s still worth knowing how to mix antidotes. . . ."
"Time to pack up!” said Slughorn. “And an extra ten points to Gryffindor for sheer cheek!"
"Come on, now, Harry, you’ll be late for your next lesson,"
"Sir,” said Harry, reminding himself irresistibly of Voldemort, “I wanted to ask you something."
"Ask away, then, my dear boy, ask away. . . ."
"Sir, I wondered what you know about . . . about Horcruxes?"
"What did you say?"
"I asked whether you know anything about Horcruxes, sir. You see —"
"Dumbledore put you up to this,” whispered Slughorn. His voice had changed completely. It was not genial anymore, but shocked, terrified. He fumbled in his breast pocket and pulled out a handkerchief, mopping his sweating brow. “Dumbledore’s shown you that — that memory. Well? Hasn’t he?"
"Yes,"
"Yes, of course,” said Slughorn quietly, still dabbing at his white face. “Of course . . . well, if you’ve seen that memory, Harry, you’ll know that I don’t know anything — anything” — he repeated the word forcefully — “about Horcruxes."
"Sir,” said Harry desperately, “I just thought there might be a bit more to the memory —"
"Did you?” said Slughorn. “Then you were wrong, weren’t you? WRONG!"
"It would’ve just looked stupid if we’d both done it!” said Harry irritably. “Look, I had to try and soften him up so I could ask him about Voldemort, didn’t I? Oh, will you get a grip!"
"I haven’t found one single explanation of what Horcruxes do!” she told him. “Not a single one! I’ve been right through the restricted section and even in the most horrible books, where they tell you how to brew the most gruesome potions — nothing! All I could find was this, in the introduction to Magick Moste Evile — listen — ‘Of the Horcrux, wickedest of magical inventions, we shall not speak nor give direction. . . .’ I mean, why mention it then?” she said impatiently, slamming the old book shut; it let out a ghostly wail. “Oh, shut up,"
"Good morning,” said the Ministry wizard, when all the students had arrived and the Heads of Houses had called for quiet. “My name is Wilkie Twycross and I shall be your Ministry Apparition instructor for the next twelve weeks. I hope to be able to prepare you for your Apparition Tests in this time —"
"Malfoy, be quiet and pay attention!"
"— by which time, many of you may be ready to take your tests,"
"I would like each of you to place yourselves now so that you have a clear five feet of space in front of you."
"Harry, where are you going?"
"I don’t know how much longer, all right?” Malfoy shot at him, oblivious to Harry standing right behind him. “It’s taking longer than I thought it would."
"Look, it’s none of your business what I’m doing, Crabbe, you and Goyle just do as you’re told and keep a lookout!"
"I tell my friends what I’m up to, if I want them to keep a lookout for me,"
"Quiet!"
"Thank you,” said Twycross. “Now then . . ."
"The important things to remember when Apparating are the three D’s!"
"Step one: Fix your mind firmly upon the desired destination,” said Twycross. “In this case, the interior of your hoop. Kindly concentrate upon that destination now."
"Step two,” said Twycross, “focus your determination to occupy the visualized space! Let your yearning to enter it flood from your mind to every particle of your body!"
"Step three,” called Twycross, “and only when I give the command . . . Turn on the spot, feeling your way into nothingness, moving with deliberation! On my command, now . . . one —"
"— two —"
"— THREE!"
"Never mind, never mind,” said Twycross dryly, who did not seem to have expected anything better. “Adjust your hoops, please, and back to your original positions. . . ."
"Splinching, or the separation of random body parts,” said Wilkie Twycross dispassionately, “occurs when the mind is insufficiently determined. You must concentrate continuously upon your destination, and move, without haste, but with deliberation . . . thus."
"Remember the three D’s,” he said, “and try again . . . one — two — three —"
"Until next Saturday, everybody, and do not forget: Destination. Determination. Deliberation."
"How did you do?” asked Ron, hurrying toward Harry. “I think I felt something the last time I tried — a kind of tingling in my feet."
"I expect your trainers are too small, Won-Won,"
"I didn’t feel anything,” said Harry, ignoring this interruption. “But I don’t care about that now —"
"What d’you mean, you don’t care? Don’t you want to learn to Apparate?"
"I’m not fussed, really, I prefer flying,” said Harry, glancing over his shoulder to see where Malfoy was, and speeding up as they came into the entrance hall. “Look, hurry up, will you, there’s something I want to do. . . ."
"Are you going to tell me what we’re doing, then?"
"Up here,"
"Harry . . ."
"Malfoy’s using Crabbe and Goyle as lookouts. He was arguing with Crabbe just now. I want to know — aha."
"I solemnly swear that I am up to no good . . . or Malfoy is anyway."
"Help me find Malfoy,"
"There!” said Ron, after a minute or so. “He’s in the Slytherin common room, look . . . with Parkinson and Zabini and Crabbe and Goyle . . ."
"Well, I’m keeping an eye on him from now on,” he said firmly. “And the moment I see him lurking somewhere with Crabbe and Goyle keeping watch outside, it’ll be on with the old Invisibility Cloak and off to find out what he’s —"
"It was on my birthday!” he said. “I was looking forward to that!"
"Not a big surprise, though, is it?” said Harry. “Not after what happened to Katie."
"But now all I’ve got to look forward to is stupid Apparition!” said Ron grumpily. “Big birthday treat . . ."
"Happy birthday, Ron,” said Harry, when they were woken on the first of March by Seamus and Dean leaving noisily for breakfast. “Have a present."
"Cheers,"
"Right,” he murmured, taking it back to bed with him, tapping it quietly and murmuring, “I solemnly swear that I am up to no good,"
"Nice one, Harry!"
"No problem,” said Harry absentmindedly, as he searched the Slytherin dormitory closely for Malfoy. “Hey . . . I don’t think he’s in his bed. . . ."
"Seriously good haul this year!” he announced, holding up a heavy gold watch with odd symbols around the edge and tiny moving stars instead of hands. “See what Mum and Dad got me? Blimey, I think I’ll come of age next year too. . . ."
"Cool,"
"Want one?"
"No thanks,” said Harry, looking up. “Malfoy’s gone again!"
"Can’t have done,” said Ron, stuffing a second Cauldron into his mouth as he slid out of bed to get dressed. “Come on, if you don’t hurry up, you’ll have to Apparate on an empty stomach. . . . Might make it easier, I suppose . . ."
"Mischief managed,"
"Ready?"
"Ron? Breakfast."
"I’m not hungry."
"I thought you just said — ?"
"Well, all right, I’ll come down with you,” sighed Ron, “but I don’t want to eat."
"You’ve just eaten half a box of Chocolate Cauldrons, haven’t you?"
"It’s not that,” Ron sighed again. “You . . . you wouldn’t understand."
"Fair enough,"
"Harry!"
"What?"
"Harry, I can’t stand it!"
"You can’t stand what?"
"I can’t stop thinking about her!"
"Lav-Lav,"
"Why does that stop you having breakfast?"
"I don’t think she knows I exist,"
"She definitely knows you exist,” said Harry, bewildered. “She keeps snogging you, doesn’t she?"
"Who are you talking about?"
"Who are you talking about?"
"Romilda Vane,"
"This is a joke, right? You’re joking."
"I think . . . Harry, I think I love her,"
"Okay,” said Harry, walking up to Ron to get a better look at the glazed eyes and the pallid complexion, “okay . . . Say that again with a straight face."
"I love her,” repeated Ron breathlessly. “Have you seen her hair, it’s all black and shiny and silky . . . and her eyes? Her big dark eyes? And her —"
"This is really funny and everything,” said Harry impatiently, “but joke’s over, all right? Drop it."
"What was that for?"
"You insulted her, Harry! You said it was a joke!"
"This is insane!” said Harry. “What’s got into — ?"
"Where did you get those Chocolate Cauldrons?"
"They were a birthday present!” shouted Ron, revolving slowly in midair as he struggled to get free. “I offered you one, didn’t I?"
"You just picked them up off the floor, didn’t you?"
"They’d fallen off my bed, all right? Let me go!"
"They didn’t fall off your bed, you prat, don’t you understand? They were mine, I chucked them out of my trunk when I was looking for the map, they’re the Chocolate Cauldrons Romilda gave me before Christmas, and they’re all spiked with love potion!"
"Romilda?” he repeated. “Did you say Romilda? Harry — do you know her? Can you introduce me?"
"Yeah, I’ll introduce you,” said Harry, thinking fast. “I’m going to let you down now, okay?"
"She’ll be in Slughorn’s office,"
"Why will she be in there?"
"Oh, she has extra Potions lessons with him,"
"Maybe I could ask if I can have them with her?"
"Great idea,"
"You’re late, Won-Won!” she pouted. “I’ve got you a birthday —"
"Leave me alone,” said Ron impatiently. “Harry’s going to introduce me to Romilda Vane."
"Harry,” he mumbled. “This is very early for a call. . . . I generally sleep late on a Saturday. . . ."
"Professor, I’m really sorry to disturb you,” said Harry as quietly as possible, while Ron stood on tiptoe, attempting to see past Slughorn into his room, “but my friend Ron’s swallowed a love potion by mistake. You couldn’t make him an antidote, could you? I’d take him to Madam Pomfrey, but we’re not supposed to have anything from Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes and, you know . . . awkward questions . . ."
"I’d have thought you could have whipped him up a remedy, Harry, an expert potioneer like you?"
"Er,” said Harry, somewhat distracted by the fact that Ron was now elbowing him in the ribs in an attempt to force his way into the room, “well, I’ve never mixed an antidote for a love potion, sir, and by the time I get it right, Ron might’ve done something serious —"
"I can’t see her, Harry — is he hiding her?"
"Was this potion within date?” asked Slughorn, now eyeing Ron with professional interest. “They can strengthen, you know, the longer they’re kept."
"That would explain a lot,” panted Harry, now positively wrestling with Ron to keep him from knocking Slughorn over. “It’s his birthday, Professor,"
"Oh, all right, come in, then, come in,” said Slughorn, relenting. “I’ve got the necessary here in my bag, it’s not a difficult antidote. . . ."
"She didn’t see that, did she?"
"She’s not here yet,"
"That’s good,” said Ron fervently. “How do I look?"
"Very handsome,” said Slughorn smoothly, handing Ron a glass of clear liquid. “Now drink that up, it’s a tonic for the nerves, keep you calm when she arrives, you know."
"Brilliant,"
"Back to normal, then?” said Harry, grinning. Slughorn chuckled. “Thanks a lot, Professor."
"Don’t mention it, m’boy, don’t mention it,” said Slughorn, as Ron collapsed into a nearby armchair, looking devastated. “Pick-me-up, that’s what he needs,” Slughorn continued, now bustling over to a table loaded with drinks. “I’ve got butterbeer, I’ve got wine, I’ve got one last bottle of this oak-matured mead . . . hmm . . . meant to give that to Dumbledore for Christmas . . . ah, well . . .” He shrugged. “He can’t miss what he’s never had! Why don’t we open it now and celebrate Mr. Weasley’s birthday? Nothing like a fine spirit to chase away the pangs of disappointed love. . . ."
"There you are then,” said Slughorn, handing Harry and Ron a glass of mead each before raising his own. “Well, a very happy birthday, Ralph —"
"Ron —"
"— and may you have many more —"
"Ron!"
"Professor!” Harry bellowed. “Do something!"
"What — but —"
"This isn’t how we imagined handing over our present,"
"Yeah, when we pictured the scene, he was conscious,"
"There we were in Hogsmeade, waiting to surprise him —"
"You were in Hogsmeade?"
"We were thinking of buying Zonko’s,” said Fred gloomily. “A Hogsmeade branch, you know, but a fat lot of good it’ll do us if you lot aren’t allowed out at weekends to buy our stuff anymore. . . . But never mind that now."
"How exactly did it happen, Harry?"
". . . and then I got the bezoar down his throat and his breathing eased up a bit, Slughorn ran for help, McGonagall and Madam Pomfrey turned up, and they brought Ron up here. They reckon he’ll be all right. Madam Pomfrey says he’ll have to stay here a week or so . . . keep taking essence of rue . . ."
"Blimey, it was lucky you thought of a bezoar,"
"Lucky there was one in the room,"
"Do Mum and Dad know?"
"They’ve already seen him, they arrived an hour ago — they’re in Dumbledore’s office now, but they’ll be back soon. . . ."
"So the poison was in the drink?"
"Yes,” said Harry at once; he could think of nothing else and was glad for the opportunity to start discussing it again. “Slughorn poured it out —"
"Would he have been able to slip something into Ron’s glass without you seeing?"
"Probably,” said Harry, “but why would Slughorn want to poison Ron?"
"No idea,” said Fred, frowning. “You don’t think he could have mixed up the glasses by mistake? Meaning to get you?"
"Why would Slughorn want to poison Harry?"
"I dunno,” said Fred, “but there must be loads of people who’d like to poison Harry, mustn’t there? ‘The Chosen One’ and all that?"
"So you think Slughorn’s a Death Eater?"
"Anything’s possible,"
"He could be under the Imperius Curse,"
"Or he could be innocent,” said Ginny. “The poison could have been in the bottle, in which case it was probably meant for Slughorn himself."
"Who’d want to kill Slughorn?"
"Dumbledore reckons Voldemort wanted Slughorn on his side,” said Harry. “Slughorn was in hiding for a year before he came to Hogwarts. And . . .” He thought of the memory Dumbledore had not yet been able to extract from Slughorn. “And maybe Voldemort wants him out of the way, maybe he thinks he could be valuable to Dumbledore."
"But you said Slughorn had been planning to give that bottle to Dumbledore for Christmas,” Ginny reminded him. “So the poisoner could just as easily have been after Dumbledore."
"Then the poisoner didn’t know Slughorn very well,” said Hermione, speaking for the first time in hours and sounding as though she had a bad head cold. “Anyone who knew Slughorn would have known there was a good chance he’d keep something that tasty for himself."
"Er-my-nee,"
"Bin in the forest all day!” he panted. “Aragog’s worse, I bin readin’ to him — didn’ get up ter dinner till jus’ now an’ then Professor Sprout told me abou’ Ron! How is he?"
"Not bad,” said Harry. “They say he’ll be okay."
"No more than six visitors at a time!"
"Hagrid makes six,"
"Oh . . . yes . . ."
"I don’ believe this,” said Hagrid hoarsely, shaking his great shaggy head as he stared down at Ron. “Jus’ don’ believe it . . . Look at him lyin’ there. . . . Who’d want ter hurt him, eh?"
"That’s just what we were discussing,” said Harry. “We don’t know."
"Someone couldn’ have a grudge against the Gryffindor Quidditch team, could they?” said Hagrid anxiously. “Firs’ Katie, now Ron . . ."
"I can’t see anyone trying to bump off a Quidditch team,"
"Wood might’ve done the Slytherins if he could’ve got away with it,"
"Well, I don’t think it’s Quidditch, but I think there’s a connection between the attacks,"
"How d’you work that out?"
"Well, for one thing, they both ought to have been fatal and weren’t, although that was pure luck. And for another, neither the poison nor the necklace seems to have reached the person who was supposed to be killed. Of course,” she added broodingly, “that makes the person behind this even more dangerous in a way, because they don’t seem to care how many people they finish off before they actually reach their victim."
"Dumbledore’s told us how you saved him with the bezoar,” she sobbed. “Oh, Harry, what can we say? You saved Ginny . . . you saved Arthur . . . now you’ve saved Ron . . ."
"Don’t be . . . I didn’t . . ."
"Half our family does seem to owe you their lives, now I stop and think about it,” Mr. Weasley said in a constricted voice. “Well, all I can say is that it was a lucky day for the Weasleys when Ron decided to sit in your compartment on the Hogwarts Express, Harry."
"It’s terrible,” growled Hagrid into his beard, as the three of them walked back along the corridor to the marble staircase. “All this new security, an’ kids are still gettin’ hurt. . . . Dumbledore’s worried sick. . . . He don’ say much, but I can tell. . . ."
"Hasn’t he got any ideas, Hagrid?"
"I ’spect he’s got hundreds of ideas, brain like his,” said Hagrid. “But he doesn’ know who sent that necklace nor put poison in that wine, or they’d’ve bin caught, wouldn’ they? Wha’ worries me,” said Hagrid, lowering his voice and glancing over his shoulder (Harry, for good measure, checked the ceiling for Peeves), “is how long Hogwarts can stay open if kids are bein’ attacked. Chamber o’ Secrets all over again, isn’ it? There’ll be panic, more parents takin’ their kids outta school, an’ nex’ thing yeh know the board o’ governors . . ."
". . . the board o’ governors’ll be talkin’ about shuttin’ us up fer good."
"Surely not?"
"Gotta see it from their point o’ view,” said Hagrid heavily. “I mean, it’s always bin a bit of a risk sendin’ a kid ter Hogwarts, hasn’ it? Yer expect accidents, don’ yeh, with hundreds of underage wizards all locked up tergether, but attempted murder, tha’s diff’rent. ’S’no wonder Dumbledore’s angry with Sn —"
"What?” said Harry quickly. “Dumbledore’s angry with Snape?"
"I never said tha’,” said Hagrid, though his look of panic could not have been a bigger giveaway. “Look at the time, it’s gettin’ on fer midnight, I need ter —"
"Hagrid, why is Dumbledore angry with Snape?"
"Shhhh!” said Hagrid, looking both nervous and angry. “Don’ shout stuff like that, Harry, d’yeh wan’ me ter lose me job? Mind, I don’ suppose yeh’d care, would yeh, not now yeh’ve given up Care of Mag —"
"Don’t try and make me feel guilty, it won’t work!” said Harry forcefully. “What’s Snape done?"
"I dunno, Harry, I shouldn’ta heard it at all! I — well, I was comin’ outta the forest the other evenin’ an’ I overheard ’em talking — well, arguin’. Didn’t like ter draw attention to meself, so I sorta skulked an’ tried not ter listen, but it was a — well, a heated discussion an’ it wasn’ easy ter block it out."
"Well?"
"Well — I jus’ heard Snape sayin’ Dumbledore took too much fer granted an’ maybe he — Snape — didn’ wan’ ter do it anymore —"
"Do what?"
"I dunno, Harry, it sounded like Snape was feelin’ a bit overworked, tha’s all — anyway, Dumbledore told him flat out he’d agreed ter do it an’ that was all there was to it. Pretty firm with him. An’ then he said summat abou’ Snape makin’ investigations in his House, in Slytherin. Well, there’s nothin’ strange abou’ that!” Hagrid added hastily, as Harry and Hermione exchanged looks full of meaning. “All the Heads o’ Houses were asked ter look inter that necklace business —"
"Yeah, but Dumbledore’s not having rows with the rest of them, is he?"
"Look,” Hagrid twisted his crossbow uncomfortably in his hands; there was a loud splintering sound and it snapped in two. “I know what yeh’re like abou’ Snape, Harry, an’ I don’ want yeh ter go readin’ more inter this than there is."
"Look out,"
"Oho!” he wheezed. “Out of bed so late, this’ll mean detention!"
"No it won’, Filch,” said Hagrid shortly. “They’re with me, aren’ they?"
"And what difference does that make?"
"I’m a ruddy teacher, aren’ I, yeh sneakin’ Squib!"
"Get goin’,"
"There you are, Potter!"
"I’ve been waiting for you to come back,” said McLaggen, disregarding Harry’s drawn wand. “Must’ve fallen asleep. Look, I saw them taking Weasley up to the hospital wing earlier. Didn’t look like he’ll be fit for next week’s match."
"Oh . . . right . . . Quidditch,” he said, putting his wand back into the belt of his jeans and running a hand wearily through his hair. “Yeah . . . he might not make it."
"Well, then, I’ll be playing Keeper, won’t I?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah, I suppose so. . . ."
"Excellent,” said McLaggen in a satisfied voice. “So when’s practice?"
"What? Oh . . . there’s one tomorrow evening."
"Good. Listen, Potter, we should have a talk beforehand. I’ve got some ideas on strategy you might find useful."
"Right,” said Harry unenthusiastically. “Well, I’ll hear them tomorrow, then. I’m pretty tired now . . . see you . . ."
"I mean, I am his girlfriend!"
"Look, why don’t you talk to Ron about all this?” Harry asked, after a particularly long interrogation from Lavender that took in everything from precisely what Ron had said about her new dress robes to whether or not Harry thought that Ron considered his relationship with Lavender to be “serious."
"Well, I would, but he’s always asleep when I go and see him!"
"Is he?"
"Is Hermione Granger still visiting him?"
"Yeah, I think so. Well, they’re friends, aren’t they?"
"Friends, don’t make me laugh,” said Lavender scornfully. “She didn’t talk to him for weeks after he started going out with me! But I suppose she wants to make up with him now he’s all interesting. . . . "
"Would you call getting poisoned being interesting?” asked Harry. “Anyway — sorry, got to go — there’s McLaggen coming for a talk about Quidditch,"
"So how’s McLaggen shaping up?"
"I’ve told you,” said Harry patiently, “he could be world-class and I wouldn’t want to keep him. He keeps trying to tell everyone what to do, he thinks he could play every position better than the rest of us. I can’t wait to be shot of him. And speaking of getting shot of people,” Harry added, getting to his feet and picking up his Firebolt, “will you stop pretending to be asleep when Lavender comes to see you? She’s driving me mad as well."
"Oh,” said Ron, looking sheepish. “Yeah. All right."
"If you don’t want to go out with her anymore, just tell her,"
"Yeah . . . well . . . it’s not that easy, is it?” said Ron. He paused. “Hermione going to look in before the match?"
"No, she’s already gone down to the pitch with Ginny."
"Oh,” said Ron, looking rather glum. “Right. Well, good luck. Hope you hammer McLag — I mean, Smith."
"I’ll try,” said Harry, shouldering his broom. “See you after the match."
"Where’re you going?"
"Yeah, I’m really going to tell you, because it’s your business, Potter,” sneered Malfoy. “You’d better hurry up, they’ll be waiting for ‘the Chosen Captain’ — ‘the Boy Who Scored’ — whatever they call you these days."
"Where have you been?"
"I met Malfoy,"
"So?"
"So I wanted to know how come he’s up at the castle with a couple of girlfriends while everyone else is down here. . . ."
"Does it matter right now?"
"Well, I’m not likely to find out, am I?” said Harry, seizing his Firebolt and pushing his glasses straight. “Come on then!"
"Tricky conditions!” McLaggen said bracingly to the team. “Coote, Peakes, you’ll want to fly out of the sun, so they don’t see you coming —"
"I’m the Captain, McLaggen, shut up giving them instructions,” said Harry angrily. “Just get up by the goalposts!"
"Make sure you do fly out of the sun,"
"And that’s Smith of Hufflepuff with the Quaffle,” said a dreamy voice, echoing over the grounds. “He did the commentary last time, of course, and Ginny Weasley flew into him, I think probably on purpose, it looked like it. Smith was being quite rude about Gryffindor, I expect he regrets that now he’s playing them — oh, look, he’s lost the Quaffle, Ginny took it from him, I do like her, she’s very nice. . . ."
". . . but now that big Hufflepuff player’s got the Quaffle from her, I can’t remember his name, it’s something like Bibble — no, Buggins —"
"It’s Cadwallader!"
"McLaggen, will you pay attention to what you’re supposed to be doing and leave everyone else alone!"
"You’re not setting a great example!"
"And Harry Potter’s now having an argument with his Keeper,” said Luna serenely, while both Hufflepuffs and Slytherins below in the crowd cheered and jeered. “I don’t think that’ll help him find the Snitch, but maybe it’s a clever ruse. . . ."
"Loser’s Lurgy."
"Seventy-forty to Hufflepuff!"
"Is it, already?” said Luna vaguely. “Oh, look! The Gryffindor Keeper’s got hold of one of the Beater’s bats."
"Will you give him back his bat and get back to the goalposts!"
"Nice of you to drop in,"
"What happened?"
"Cracked skull,” said Madam Pomfrey, bustling up and pushing him back against his pillows. “Nothing to worry about, I mended it at once, but I’m keeping you in overnight. You shouldn’t overexert yourself for a few hours."
"I don’t want to stay here overnight,” said Harry angrily, sitting up and throwing back his covers. “I want to find McLaggen and kill him."
"I’m afraid that would come under the heading of ‘overexertion,’” said Madam Pomfrey, pushing him firmly back onto the bed and raising her wand in a threatening manner. “You will stay here until I discharge you, Potter, or I shall call the headmaster."
"D’you know how much we lost by?"
"Well, yeah I do,” said Ron apologetically. “Final score was three hundred and twenty to sixty."
"Brilliant,” said Harry savagely. “Really brilliant! When I get hold of McLaggen —"
"You don’t want to get hold of him, he’s the size of a troll,” said Ron reasonably. “Personally, I think there’s a lot to be said for hexing him with that toenail thing of the Prince’s. Anyway, the rest of the team might’ve dealt with him before you get out of here, they’re not happy. . . ."
"I could hear the match commentary from here,” said Ron, his voice now shaking with laughter. “I hope Luna always commentates from now on. . . . Loser’s Lurgy . . ."
"Ginny came in to visit while you were unconscious,” he said, after a long pause, and Harry’s imagination zoomed into overdrive, rapidly constructing a scene in which Ginny, weeping over his lifeless form, confessed her feelings of deep attraction to him while Ron gave them his blessing. . . . “She reckons you only just arrived on time for the match. How come? You left here early enough."
"Oh . . .” said Harry, as the scene in his mind’s eye imploded. “Yeah . . . well, I saw Malfoy sneaking off with a couple of girls who didn’t look like they wanted to be with him, and that’s the second time he’s made sure he isn’t down on the Quidditch pitch with the rest of the school; he skipped the last match too, remember?” Harry sighed. “Wish I’d followed him now, the match was such a fiasco. . . ."
"Don’t be stupid,” said Ron sharply. “You couldn’t have missed a Quidditch match just to follow Malfoy, you’re the Captain!"
"I want to know what he’s up to,” said Harry. “And don’t tell me it’s all in my head, not after what I overheard between him and Snape —"
"I never said it was all in your head,” said Ron, hoisting himself up on an elbow in turn and frowning at Harry, “but there’s no rule saying only one person at a time can be plotting anything in this place! You’re getting a bit obsessed with Malfoy, Harry. I mean, thinking about missing a match just to follow him . . ."
"I want to catch him at it!” said Harry in frustration. “I mean, where’s he going when he disappears off the map?"
"I dunno . . . Hogsmeade?"
"I’ve never seen him going along any of the secret passageways on the map. I thought they were being watched now anyway?"
"Well then, I dunno,"
"Kreacher?"
"What’s going — ?"
"Muffliato!"
"I was watching that, Potty!” he told Harry indignantly, pointing at the fight below, before letting out a loud cackle. “Look at the ickle creatures squabbling, bitey bitey, punchy punchy —"
"Kreacher will not insult Harry Potter in front of Dobby, no he won’t, or Dobby will shut Kreacher’s mouth for him!"
"— kicky, scratchy!” cried Peeves happily, now pelting bits of chalk at the elves to enrage them further. “Tweaky, pokey!"
"Kreacher will say what he likes about his master, oh yes, and what a master he is, filthy friend of Mudbloods, oh, what would poor Kreacher’s mistress say — ?"
"Stick your fingers up his nosey, draw his cork and pull his earsies —"
"Langlock!"
"Nice one,” said Ron appreciatively, lifting Dobby into the air so that his flailing limbs no longer made contact with Kreacher. “That was another Prince hex, wasn’t it?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, twisting Kreacher’s wizened arm into a half nelson. “Right — I’m forbidding you to fight each other! Well, Kreacher, you’re forbidden to fight Dobby. Dobby, I know I’m not allowed to give you orders —"
"Dobby is a free house-elf and he can obey anyone he likes and Dobby will do whatever Harry Potter wants him to do!"
"Okay then,"
"Master called me?"
"Yeah, I did,” said Harry, glancing toward Madam Pomfrey’s office door to check that the Muffliato spell was still working; there was no sign that she had heard any of the commotion. “I’ve got a job for you."
"Kreacher will do whatever Master wants,” said Kreacher, sinking so low that his lips almost touched his gnarled toes, “because Kreacher has no choice, but Kreacher is ashamed to have such a master, yes —"
"Dobby will do it, Harry Potter!” squeaked Dobby, his tennis-ball-sized eyes still swimming in tears. “Dobby would be honored to help Harry Potter!"
"Come to think of it, it would be good to have both of you,” said Harry. “Okay then . . . I want you to tail Draco Malfoy."
"I want to know where he’s going, who he’s meeting, and what he’s doing. I want you to follow him around the clock."
"Yes, Harry Potter!” said Dobby at once, his great eyes shining with excitement. “And if Dobby does it wrong, Dobby will throw himself off the topmost tower, Harry Potter!"
"There won’t be any need for that,"
"Master wants me to follow the youngest of the Malfoys?” croaked Kreacher. “Master wants me to spy upon the pure-blood great-nephew of my old mistress?"
"That’s the one,” said Harry, foreseeing a great danger and determining to prevent it immediately. “And you’re forbidden to tip him off, Kreacher, or to show him what you’re up to, or to talk to him at all, or to write him messages or . . . or to contact him in any way. Got it?"
"Master thinks of everything, and Kreacher must obey him even though Kreacher would much rather be the servant of the Malfoy boy, oh yes. . . ."
"That’s settled, then,” said Harry. “I’ll want regular reports, but make sure I’m not surrounded by people when you turn up. Ron and Hermione are okay. And don’t tell anyone what you’re doing. Just stick to Malfoy like a couple of wart plasters."
"What did they row about?"
"It’s all right!” said Hermione kindly, hurrying forward to help her. “Here . . ."
"Reparo."
"I swear they’re getting smaller,"
"Never mind her,” said Harry, a little impatiently. “What did Ginny and Dean row about, Hermione?"
"Oh, Dean was laughing about McLaggen hitting that Bludger at you,"
"It must’ve looked funny,"
"It didn’t look funny at all!” said Hermione hotly. “It looked terrible and if Coote and Peakes hadn’t caught Harry he could have been very badly hurt!"
"Yeah, well, there was no need for Ginny and Dean to split up over it,” said Harry, still trying to sound casual. “Or are they still together?"
"Yes, they are — but why are you so interested?"
"I just don’t want my Quidditch team messed up again!” he said hastily, but Hermione continued to look suspicious, and he was most relieved when a voice behind them called, “Harry!"
"Oh, hi, Luna."
"I went to the hospital wing to find you,” said Luna, rummaging in her bag. “But they said you’d left. . . ."
". . . I’ve been told to give you this."
"Tonight,"
"Nice commentary last match!"
"You’re making fun of me, aren’t you?” she said. “Everyone says I was dreadful."
"No, I’m serious!” said Ron earnestly. “I can’t remember enjoying commentary more! What is this, by the way?"
"Oh, it’s a Gurdyroot,” she said, stuffing the cat litter and the toadstool back into her bag. “You can keep it if you like, I’ve got a few of them. They’re really excellent for warding off Gulping Plimpies."
"You know, she’s grown on me, Luna,” he said, as they set off again for the Great Hall. “I know she’s insane, but it’s in a good —"
"Hi,"
"C’mon,” Harry muttered to Hermione, and they sped past, though not before they had heard Lavender say, “Why didn’t you tell me you were getting out today? And why was she with you?"
"Thanks a lot, Hermione,” said Harry, giving her a hasty pat on the back as he checked his watch and saw that it was nearly eight o’clock. “Listen, I’ve got to hurry or I’ll be late for Dumbledore. . . ."
"Enter,"
"Aha!” she cried, pointing dramatically at Harry as she blinked at him through her magnifying spectacles. “So this is the reason I am to be thrown unceremoniously from your office, Dumbledore!"
"My dear Sybill,” said Dumbledore in a slightly exasperated voice, “there is no question of throwing you unceremoniously from anywhere, but Harry does have an appointment, and I really don’t think there is any more to be said —"
"Very well,” said Professor Trelawney, in a deeply wounded voice. “If you will not banish the usurping nag, so be it. . . . Perhaps I shall find a school where my talents are better appreciated. . . ."
"Please close the door and sit down, Harry,"
"Professor Trelawney still isn’t happy Firenze is teaching, then?"
"No,” said Dumbledore, “Divination is turning out to be much more trouble than I could have foreseen, never having studied the subject myself. I cannot ask Firenze to return to the forest, where he is now an outcast, nor can I ask Sybill Trelawney to leave. Between ourselves, she has no idea of the danger she would be in outside the castle. She does not know — and I think it would be unwise to enlighten her — that she made the prophecy about you and Voldemort, you see."
"But never mind my staffing problems. We have much more important matters to discuss. Firstly — have you managed the task I set you at the end of our previous lesson?"
"Ah,” said Harry, brought up short. What with Apparition lessons and Quidditch and Ron being poisoned and getting his skull cracked and his determination to find out what Draco Malfoy was up to, Harry had almost forgotten about the memory Dumbledore had asked him to extract from Professor Slughorn. “Well, I asked Professor Slughorn about it at the end of Potions, sir, but, er, he wouldn’t give it to me."
"I see,” said Dumbledore eventually, peering at Harry over the top of his half-moon spectacles and giving Harry the usual sensation that he was being X-rayed. “And you feel that you have exerted your very best efforts in this matter, do you? That you have exercised all of your considerable ingenuity? That you have left no depth of cunning unplumbed in your quest to retrieve the memory?"
"Well,” Harry stalled, at a loss for what to say next. His single attempt to get hold of the memory suddenly seemed embarrassingly feeble. “Well . . . the day Ron swallowed love potion by mistake I took him to Professor Slughorn. I thought maybe if I got Professor Slughorn in a good enough mood —"
"And did that work?"
"Well, no, sir, because Ron got poisoned —"
"— which, naturally, made you forget all about trying to retrieve the memory; I would have expected nothing else, while your best friend was in danger. Once it became clear that Mr. Weasley was going to make a full recovery, however, I would have hoped that you returned to the task I set you. I thought I made it clear to you how very important that memory is. Indeed, I did my best to impress upon you that it is the most crucial memory of all and that we will be wasting our time without it."
"Sir,” he said, a little desperately, “it isn’t that I wasn’t bothered or anything, I’ve just had other — other things . . ."
"Other things on your mind,” Dumbledore finished the sentence for him. “I see."
"Professor Dumbledore, I’m really sorry. I should have done more. . . . I should have realized you wouldn’t have asked me to do it if it wasn’t really important."
"Thank you for saying that, Harry,” said Dumbledore quietly. “May I hope, then, that you will give this matter higher priority from now on? There will be little point in our meeting after tonight unless we have that memory."
"I’ll do it, sir, I’ll get it from him,"
"Then we shall say no more about it just now,” said Dumbledore more kindly, “but continue with our story where we left off. You remember where that was?"
"Yes, sir,” said Harry quickly. “Voldemort killed his father and his grandparents and made it look as though his Uncle Morfin did it. Then he went back to Hogwarts and he asked . . . he asked Professor Slughorn about Horcruxes,"
"Very good,” said Dumbledore. “Now, you will remember, I hope, that I told you at the very outset of these meetings of ours that we would be entering the realms of guesswork and speculation?"
"Yes, sir."
"Thus far, as I hope you agree, I have shown you reasonably firm sources of fact for my deductions as to what Voldemort did until the age of seventeen?"
"But now, Harry,” said Dumbledore, “now things become murkier and stranger. If it was difficult to find evidence about the boy Riddle, it has been almost impossible to find anyone prepared to reminisce about the man Voldemort. In fact, I doubt whether there is a soul alive, apart from himself, who could give us a full account of his life since he left Hogwarts. However, I have two last memories that I would like to share with you.” Dumbledore indicated the two little crystal bottles gleaming beside the Pensieve. “I shall then be glad of your opinion as to whether the conclusions I have drawn from them seem likely."
"I hope you are not tired of diving into other people’s memories, for they are curious recollections, these two,"
"He reached the seventh year of his schooling with, as you might have expected, top grades in every examination he had taken. All around him, his classmates were deciding which jobs they were to pursue once they had left Hogwarts. Nearly everybody expected spectacular things from Tom Riddle, prefect, Head Boy, winner of the Award for Special Services to the School. I know that several teachers, Professor Slughorn amongst them, suggested that he join the Ministry of Magic, offered to set up appointments, put him in touch with useful contacts. He refused all offers. The next thing the staff knew, Voldemort was working at Borgin and Burkes."
"At Borgin and Burkes?"
"At Borgin and Burkes,” repeated Dumbledore calmly. “I think you will see what attractions the place held for him when we have entered Hokey’s memory. But this was not Voldemort’s first choice of job. Hardly anyone knew of it at the time — I was one of the few in whom the then headmaster confided — but Voldemort first approached Professor Dippet and asked whether he could remain at Hogwarts as a teacher."
"He wanted to stay here? Why?"
"I believe he had several reasons, though he confided none of them to Professor Dippet,” said Dumbledore. “Firstly, and very importantly, Voldemort was, I believe, more attached to this school than he has ever been to a person. Hogwarts was where he had been happiest; the first and only place he had felt at home."
"And thirdly, as a teacher, he would have had great power and influence over young witches and wizards. Perhaps he had gained the idea from Professor Slughorn, the teacher with whom he was on best terms, who had demonstrated how influential a role a teacher can play. I do not imagine for an instant that Voldemort envisaged spending the rest of his life at Hogwarts, but I do think that he saw it as a useful recruiting ground, and a place where he might begin to build himself an army."
"But he didn’t get the job, sir?"
"No, he did not. Professor Dippet told him that he was too young at eighteen, but invited him to reapply in a few years, if he still wished to teach."
"How did you feel about that, sir?"
"Deeply uneasy,” said Dumbledore. “I had advised Armando against the appointment — I did not give the reasons I have given you, for Professor Dippet was very fond of Voldemort and convinced of his honesty. But I did not want Lord Voldemort back at this school, and especially not in a position of power."
"Which job did he want, sir? What subject did he want to teach?"
"So Voldemort went off to Borgin and Burkes, and all the staff who had admired him said what a waste it was, a brilliant young wizard like that, working in a shop. However, Voldemort was no mere assistant. Polite and handsome and clever, he was soon given particular jobs of the type that only exist in a place like Borgin and Burkes, which specializes, as you know, Harry, in objects with unusual and powerful properties. Voldemort was sent to persuade people to part with their treasures for sale by the partners, and he was, by all accounts, unusually gifted at doing this."
"I’ll bet he was,"
"Well, quite,” said Dumbledore, with a faint smile. “And now it is time to hear from Hokey the house-elf, who worked for a very old, very rich witch by the name of Hepzibah Smith."
"After you, Harry."
"Hurry up, Hokey!” said Hepzibah imperiously. “He said he’d come at four, it’s only a couple of minutes to and he’s never been late yet!"
"How do I look?"
"Lovely, madam,"
"Quick, quick, he’s here, Hokey!"
"I brought you flowers,"
"You naughty boy, you shouldn’t have!” squealed old Hepzibah, though Harry noticed that she had an empty vase standing ready on the nearest little table. “You do spoil this old lady, Tom. . . . Sit down, sit down. . . . Where’s Hokey? Ah . . ."
"Help yourself, Tom,” said Hepzibah, “I know how you love my cakes. Now, how are you? You look pale. They overwork you at that shop, I’ve said it a hundred times. . . ."
"Well, what’s your excuse for visiting this time?"
"Mr. Burke would like to make an improved offer for the goblin-made armor,” said Voldemort. “Five hundred Galleons, he feels it is a more than fair —"
"Now, now, not so fast, or I’ll think you’re only here for my trinkets!"
"I am ordered here because of them,” said Voldemort quietly. “I am only a poor assistant, madam, who must do as he is told. Mr. Burke wishes me to inquire —"
"Oh, Mr. Burke, phooey!” said Hepzibah, waving a little hand. “I’ve something to show you that I’ve never shown Mr. Burke! Can you keep a secret, Tom? Will you promise you won’t tell Mr. Burke I’ve got it? He’d never let me rest if he knew I’d shown it to you, and I’m not selling, not to Burke, not to anyone! But you, Tom, you’ll appreciate it for its history, not how many Galleons you can get for it."
"I’d be glad to see anything Miss Hepzibah shows me,"
"I had Hokey bring it out for me. . . . Hokey, where are you? I want to show Mr. Riddle our finest treasure. . . . In fact, bring both, while you’re at it. . . ."
"Here, madam,"
"Now,” said Hepzibah happily, taking the boxes from the elf, laying them in her lap, and preparing to open the topmost one, “I think you’ll like this, Tom. . . . Oh, if my family knew I was showing you. . . . They can’t wait to get their hands on this!"
"I wonder whether you know what it is, Tom? Pick it up, have a good look!"
"A badger,” murmured Voldemort, examining the engraving upon the cup. “Then this was . . . ?"
"Helga Hufflepuff’s, as you very well know, you clever boy!” said Hepzibah, leaning forward with a loud creaking of corsets and actually pinching his hollow cheek. “Didn’t I tell you I was distantly descended? This has been handed down in the family for years and years. Lovely, isn’t it? And all sorts of powers it’s supposed to possess too, but I haven’t tested them thoroughly, I just keep it nice and safe in here. . . ."
"Now then,” said Hepzibah happily, “where’s Hokey? Oh yes, there you are — take that away now, Hokey."
"I think you’ll like this even more, Tom,” she whispered. “Lean in a little, dear boy, so you can see. . . . Of course, Burke knows I’ve got this one, I bought it from him, and I daresay he’d love to get it back when I’m gone. . . ."
"Slytherin’s mark,"
"That’s right!” said Hepzibah, delighted, apparently, at the sight of Voldemort gazing at her locket, transfixed. “I had to pay an arm and a leg for it, but I couldn’t let it pass, not a real treasure like that, had to have it for my collection. Burke bought it, apparently, from a ragged-looking woman who seemed to have stolen it, but had no idea of its true value —"
"— I daresay Burke paid her a pittance but there you are. . . . Pretty, isn’t it? And again, all kinds of powers attributed to it, though I just keep it nice and safe. . . ."
"So there you are, Tom, dear, and I hope you enjoyed that!"
"Are you all right, dear?"
"Oh yes,” said Voldemort quietly. “Yes, I’m very well. . . ."
"I thought — but a trick of the light, I suppose —” said Hepzibah, looking unnerved, and Harry guessed that she too had seen the momentary red gleam in Voldemort’s eyes. “Here, Hokey, take these away and lock them up again. . . . The usual enchantments . . ."
"Time to leave, Harry,"
"Hepzibah Smith died two days after that little scene,” said Dumbledore, resuming his seat and indicating that Harry should do the same. “Hokey the house-elf was convicted by the Ministry of poisoning her mistress’s evening cocoa by accident."
"No way!"
"I see we are of one mind,” said Dumbledore. “Certainly, there are many similarities between this death and that of the Riddles. In both cases, somebody else took the blame, someone who had a clear memory of having caused the death —"
"Hokey confessed?"
"She remembered putting something in her mistress’s cocoa that turned out not to be sugar, but a lethal and little-known poison,” said Dumbledore. “It was concluded that she had not meant to do it, but being old and confused —"
"Voldemort modified her memory, just like he did with Morfin!"
"Yes, that is my conclusion too,” said Dumbledore. “And, just as with Morfin, the Ministry was predisposed to suspect Hokey —"
"— because she was a house-elf,"
"Precisely,"
"Now,” said Dumbledore, “if you don’t mind, Harry, I want to pause once more to draw your attention to certain points of our story. Voldemort had committed another murder; whether it was his first since he killed the Riddles, I do not know, but I think it was. This time, as you will have seen, he killed not for revenge, but for gain. He wanted the two fabulous trophies that poor, besotted, old woman showed him. Just as he had once robbed the other children at his orphanage, just as he had stolen his Uncle Morfin’s ring, so he ran off now with Hepzibah’s cup and locket."
"But,” said Harry, frowning, “it seems mad. . . . Risking everything, throwing away his job, just for those . . ."
"Mad to you, perhaps, but not to Voldemort,” said Dumbledore. “I hope you will understand in due course exactly what those objects meant to him, Harry, but you must admit that it is not difficult to imagine that he saw the locket, at least, as rightfully his."
"The locket maybe,” said Harry, “but why take the cup as well?"
"It had belonged to another of Hogwarts’s founders,"
"And now for the very last recollection I have to show you, at least until you manage to retrieve Professor Slughorn’s memory for us. Ten years separate Hokey’s memory and this one, ten years during which we can only guess at what Lord Voldemort was doing. . . ."
"Whose memory is it?"
"Mine,"
"Enter."
"Good evening, Tom,” said Dumbledore easily. “Won’t you sit down?"
"Thank you,” said Voldemort, and he took the seat to which Dumbledore had gestured — the very seat, by the looks of it, that Harry had just vacated in the present. “I heard that you had become headmaster,” he said, and his voice was slightly higher and colder than it had been. “A worthy choice."
"I am glad you approve,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “May I offer you a drink?"
"That would be welcome,” said Voldemort. “I have come a long way."
"So, Tom . . . to what do I owe the pleasure?"
"They do not call me ‘Tom’ anymore,” he said. “These days, I am known as —"
"I know what you are known as,” said Dumbledore, smiling pleasantly. “But to me, I’m afraid, you will always be Tom Riddle. It is one of the irritating things about old teachers. I am afraid that they never quite forget their charges’ youthful beginnings."
"I am surprised you have remained here so long,” said Voldemort after a short pause. “I always wondered why a wizard such as yourself never wished to leave school."
"Well,” said Dumbledore, still smiling, “to a wizard such as myself, there can be nothing more important than passing on ancient skills, helping hone young minds. If I remember correctly, you once saw the attraction of teaching too."
"I see it still,” said Voldemort. “I merely wondered why you — who are so often asked for advice by the Ministry, and who have twice, I think, been offered the post of Minister —"
"Three times at the last count, actually,” said Dumbledore. “But the Ministry never attracted me as a career. Again, something we have in common, I think."
"I have returned,” he said, after a little while, “later, perhaps, than Professor Dippet expected . . . but I have returned, nevertheless, to request again what he once told me I was too young to have. I have come to you to ask that you permit me to return to this castle, to teach. I think you must know that I have seen and done much since I left this place. I could show and tell your students things they can gain from no other wizard."
"Yes, I certainly do know that you have seen and done much since leaving us,” he said quietly. “Rumors of your doings have reached your old school, Tom. I should be sorry to believe half of them."
"Greatness inspires envy, envy engenders spite, spite spawns lies. You must know this, Dumbledore."
"You call it ‘greatness,’ what you have been doing, do you?"
"Certainly,” said Voldemort, and his eyes seemed to burn red. “I have experimented; I have pushed the boundaries of magic further, perhaps, than they have ever been pushed —"
"Of some kinds of magic,” Dumbledore corrected him quietly. “Of some. Of others, you remain . . . forgive me . . . woefully ignorant."
"The old argument,” he said softly. “But nothing I have seen in the world has supported your famous pronouncements that love is more powerful than my kind of magic, Dumbledore."
"Perhaps you have been looking in the wrong places,"
"Well, then, what better place to start my fresh researches than here, at Hogwarts?” said Voldemort. “Will you let me return? Will you let me share my knowledge with your students? I place myself and my talents at your disposal. I am yours to command."
"And what will become of those whom you command? What will happen to those who call themselves — or so rumor has it — the Death Eaters?"
"My friends,” he said, after a moment’s pause, “will carry on without me, I am sure."
"I am glad to hear that you consider them friends,” said Dumbledore. “I was under the impression that they are more in the order of servants."
"You are mistaken,"
"Then if I were to go to the Hog’s Head tonight, I would not find a group of them — Nott, Rosier, Mulciber, Dolohov — awaiting your return? Devoted friends indeed, to travel this far with you on a snowy night, merely to wish you luck as you attempted to secure a teaching post."
"You are omniscient as ever, Dumbledore."
"Oh no, merely friendly with the local barmen,” said Dumbledore lightly. “Now, Tom . . ."
"Let us speak openly. Why have you come here tonight, surrounded by henchmen, to request a job we both know you do not want?"
"A job I do not want? On the contrary, Dumbledore, I want it very much."
"Oh, you want to come back to Hogwarts, but you do not want to teach any more than you wanted to when you were eighteen. What is it you’re after, Tom? Why not try an open request for once?"
"If you do not want to give me a job —"
"Of course I don’t,” said Dumbledore. “And I don’t think for a moment you expected me to. Nevertheless, you came here, you asked, you must have had a purpose."
"This is your final word?"
"It is,"
"Then we have nothing more to say to each other."
"No, nothing,” said Dumbledore, and a great sadness filled his face. “The time is long gone when I could frighten you with a burning wardrobe and force you to make repayment for your crimes. But I wish I could, Tom. . . . I wish I could. . . ."
"Why?” said Harry at once, looking up into Dumbledore’s face. “Why did he come back? Did you ever find out?"
"I have ideas,” said Dumbledore, “but no more than that."
"What ideas, sir?"
"I shall tell you, Harry, when you have retrieved that memory from Professor Slughorn,” said Dumbledore. “When you have that last piece of the jigsaw, everything will, I hope, be clear . . . to both of us."
"Was he after the Defense Against the Dark Arts job again, sir? He didn’t say. . . ."
"Oh, he definitely wanted the Defense Against the Dark Arts job,” said Dumbledore. “The aftermath of our little meeting proved that. You see, we have never been able to keep a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher for longer than a year since I refused the post to Lord Voldemort."
"You won’t find anything in there,"
"Don’t start, Hermione,” said Harry. “If it hadn’t been for the Prince, Ron wouldn’t be sitting here now."
"He would if you’d just listened to Snape in our first year,"
"Sectumsempra!”) scrawled in a margin above the intriguing words “For Enemies,"
"At least you can Apparate, though!” said Ron tensely. “You’ll have no trouble come July!"
"I’ve only done it once,"
"I’m telling you, the stupid Prince isn’t going to be able to help you with this, Harry!” said Hermione, more loudly. “There’s only one way to force someone to do what you want, and that’s the Imperius Curse, which is illegal —"
"Yeah, I know that, thanks,” said Harry, not looking up from the book. “That’s why I’m looking for something different. Dumbledore says Veritaserum won’t do it, but there might be something else, a potion or a spell. . . ."
"You’re going about it the wrong way,” said Hermione. “Only you can get the memory, Dumbledore says. That must mean you can persuade Slughorn where other people can’t. It’s not a question of slipping him a potion, anyone could do that —"
"How d’you spell ‘belligerent’?” said Ron, shaking his quill very hard while staring at his parchment. “It can’t be B — U — M —"
"No, it isn’t,” said Hermione, pulling Ron’s essay toward her. “And ‘augury’ doesn’t begin O — R — G either. What kind of quill are you using?"
"It’s one of Fred and George’s Spell-Check ones . . . but I think the charm must be wearing off. . . ."
"Yes, it must,” said Hermione, pointing at the title of his essay, “because we were asked how we’d deal with dementors, not ‘Dugbogs,’ and I don’t remember you changing your name to ‘Roonil Wazlib’ either."
"Ah no!” said Ron, staring horror-struck at the parchment. “Don’t say I’ll have to write the whole thing out again!"
"It’s okay, we can fix it,"
"I love you, Hermione,"
"Don’t let Lavender hear you saying that."
"I won’t,” said Ron into his hands. “Or maybe I will . . . then she’ll ditch me . . ."
"Why don’t you ditch her if you want to finish it?"
"You haven’t ever chucked anyone, have you?” said Ron. “You and Cho just —"
"Sort of fell apart, yeah,"
"Wish that would happen with me and Lavender,” said Ron gloomily, watching Hermione silently tapping each of his misspelled words with the end of her wand, so that they corrected themselves on the page. “But the more I hint I want to finish it, the tighter she holds on. It’s like going out with the giant squid."
"There,"
"Thanks a million,” said Ron. “Can I borrow your quill for the conclusion?"
"Kreacher!"
"Master said he wanted regular reports on what the Malfoy boy is doing, so Kreacher has come to give —"
"Dobby has been helping too, Harry Potter!” he squeaked, casting Kreacher a resentful look. “And Kreacher ought to tell Dobby when he is coming to see Harry Potter so they can make their reports together!"
"What is this?” asked Hermione, still looking shocked by these sudden appearances. “What’s going on, Harry?"
"Well . . . they’ve been following Malfoy for me,"
"Night and day,"
"Dobby has not slept for a week, Harry Potter!"
"You haven’t slept, Dobby? But surely, Harry, you didn’t tell him not to —"
"No, of course I didn’t,” said Harry quickly. “Dobby, you can sleep, all right? But has either of you found out anything?"
"Master Malfoy moves with a nobility that befits his pure blood,” croaked Kreacher at once. “His features recall the fine bones of my mistress and his manners are those of —"
"Draco Malfoy is a bad boy!” squeaked Dobby angrily. “A bad boy who — who —"
"Thank you, Harry Potter,” he panted. “Dobby still finds it difficult to speak ill of his old masters. . . ."
"But Kreacher should know that Draco Malfoy is not a good master to a house-elf!"
"Yeah, we don’t need to hear about you being in love with Malfoy,” Harry told Kreacher. “Let’s fast forward to where he’s actually been going."
"Master Malfoy eats in the Great Hall, he sleeps in a dormitory in the dungeons, he attends his classes in a variety of —"
"Dobby, you tell me,” said Harry, cutting across Kreacher. “Has he been going anywhere he shouldn’t have?"
"Harry Potter, sir,” squeaked Dobby, his great orblike eyes shining in the firelight, “the Malfoy boy is breaking no rules that Dobby can discover, but he is still keen to avoid detection. He has been making regular visits to the seventh floor with a variety of other students, who keep watch for him while he enters —"
"The Room of Requirement!” said Harry, smacking himself hard on the forehead with Advanced Potion-Making. Hermione and Ron stared at him. “That’s where he’s been sneaking off to! That’s where he’s doing . . . whatever he’s doing! And I bet that’s why he’s been disappearing off the map — come to think of it, I’ve never seen the Room of Requirement on there!"
"Maybe the Marauders never knew the room was there,"
"I think it’ll be part of the magic of the room,” said Hermione. “If you need it to be Unplottable, it will be."
"Dobby, have you managed to get in to have a look at what Malfoy’s doing?"
"No, Harry Potter, that is impossible,"
"No, it’s not,” said Harry at once. “Malfoy got into our headquarters there last year, so I’ll be able to get in and spy on him, no problem."
"But I don’t think you will, Harry,” said Hermione slowly. “Malfoy already knew exactly how we were using the room, didn’t he, because that stupid Marietta had blabbed. He needed the room to become the headquarters of the D.A., so it did. But you don’t know what the room becomes when Malfoy goes in there, so you don’t know what to ask it to transform into."
"There’ll be a way around that,” said Harry dismissively. “You’ve done brilliantly, Dobby."
"Kreacher’s done well too,” said Hermione kindly; but far from looking grateful, Kreacher averted his huge, bloodshot eyes and croaked at the ceiling, “The Mudblood is speaking to Kreacher, Kreacher will pretend he cannot hear —"
"Get out of it,” Harry snapped at him, and Kreacher made one last deep bow and Disapparated. “You’d better go and get some sleep too, Dobby."
"Thank you, Harry Potter, sir!"
"How good’s this?” said Harry enthusiastically, turning to Ron and Hermione the moment the room was elf-free again. “We know where Malfoy’s going! We’ve got him cornered now!"
"Yeah, it’s great,"
"But what’s all this about him going up there with a ‘variety of students’?” said Hermione. “How many people are in on it? You wouldn’t think he’d trust lots of them to know what he’s doing. . . ."
"Yeah, that is weird,” said Harry, frowning. “I heard him telling Crabbe it wasn’t Crabbe’s business what he was doing . . . so what’s he telling all these . . . all these . . ."
"God, I’ve been stupid,” he said quietly. “It’s obvious, isn’t it? There was a great vat of it down in the dungeon. . . . He could’ve nicked some any time during that lesson. . . ."
"Nicked what?"
"Polyjuice Potion. He stole some of the Polyjuice Potion Slughorn showed us in our first Potions lesson. . . . There aren’t a whole variety of students standing guard for Malfoy . . . it’s just Crabbe and Goyle as usual. . . . Yeah, it all fits!” said Harry, jumping up and starting to pace in front of the fire. “They’re stupid enough to do what they’re told even if he won’t tell them what he’s up to . . . but he doesn’t want them to be seen lurking around outside the Room of Requirement, so he’s got them taking Polyjuice to make them look like other people. . . . Those two girls I saw him with when he missed Quidditch — ha! Crabbe and Goyle!"
"Do you mean to say,” said Hermione in a hushed voice, “that that little girl whose scales I repaired — ?"
"Yeah, of course!” said Harry loudly, staring at her. “Of course! Malfoy must’ve been inside the room at the time, so she — what am I talking about? — he dropped the scales to tell Malfoy not to come out, because there was someone there! And there was that girl who dropped the toadspawn too! We’ve been walking past him all the time and not realizing it!"
"He’s got Crabbe and Goyle transforming into girls?” guffawed Ron. “Blimey . . . No wonder they don’t look too happy these days. . . . I’m surprised they don’t tell him to stuff it. . . ."
"Well, they wouldn’t, would they, if he’s shown them his Dark Mark?"
"Hmmm . . . the Dark Mark we don’t know exists,"
"We’ll see,"
"Yes, we will,” Hermione said, getting to her feet and stretching. “But, Harry, before you get all excited, I still don’t think you’ll be able to get into the Room of Requirement without knowing what’s there first. And I don’t think you should forget” — she heaved her bag onto her shoulder and gave him a very serious look — “that what you’re supposed to be concentrating on is getting that memory from Slughorn. Good night."
"What d’you think?"
"Wish I could Disapparate like a house-elf,” said Ron, staring at the spot where Dobby had vanished. “I’d have that Apparition Test in the bag."
"Look,” he said quietly, leaning forward and putting a hand on the Daily Prophet, which she had just removed from a post owl, to stop her from opening it and vanishing behind it. “I haven’t forgotten about Slughorn, but I haven’t got a clue how to get that memory off him, and until I get a brain wave why shouldn’t I find out what Malfoy’s doing?"
"I’ve already told you, you need to persuade Slughorn,” said Hermione. “It’s not a question of tricking him or bewitching him, or Dumbledore could have done it in a second. Instead of messing around outside the Room of Requirement” — she jerked the Prophet out from under Harry’s hand and unfolded it to look at the front page — “you should go and find Slughorn and start appealing to his better nature."
"Anyone we know — ?"
"Yes!” said Hermione, causing both Harry and Ron to gag on their breakfast. “But it’s all right, he’s not dead — it’s Mundungus, he’s been arrested and sent to Azkaban! Something to do with impersonating an Inferius during an attempted burglary . . . and someone called Octavius Pepper has vanished. . . . Oh, and how horrible, a nine-year-old boy has been arrested for trying to kill his grandparents, they think he was under the Imperius Curse. . . ."
"Okay,” said Harry aloud. “Okay . . . I thought the wrong thing. . . ."
"Oh, come off it,” he told the wall irritably. “That was a clear instruction. . . . Fine . . ."
"I need to see what Draco Malfoy is doing inside you"
"Late again, Potter,” said Snape coldly, as Harry hurried into the candlelit classroom. “Ten points from Gryffindor."
"Before we start, I want your dementor essays,” said Snape, waving his wand carelessly, so that twenty-five scrolls of parchment soared into the air and landed in a neat pile on his desk. “And I hope for your sakes they are better than the tripe I had to endure on resisting the Imperius Curse. Now, if you will all open your books to page — what is it, Mr. Finnigan?"
"Sir,” said Seamus, “I’ve been wondering, how do you tell the difference between an Inferius and a ghost? Because there was something in the paper about an Inferius —"
"No, there wasn’t,"
"But sir, I heard people talking —"
"If you had actually read the article in question, Mr. Finnigan, you would have known that the so-called Inferius was nothing but a smelly sneak thief by the name of Mundungus Fletcher."
"I thought Snape and Mundungus were on the same side,” muttered Harry to Ron and Hermione. “Shouldn’t he be upset Mundungus has been arrest —"
"But Potter seems to have a lot to say on the subject,” said Snape, pointing suddenly at the back of the room, his black eyes fixed on Harry. “Let us ask Potter how we would tell the difference between an Inferius and a ghost."
"Er — well — ghosts are transparent —"
"Oh, very good,” interrupted Snape, his lip curling. “Yes, it is easy to see that nearly six years of magical education have not been wasted on you, Potter. ‘Ghosts are transparent.’"
"Yeah, ghosts are transparent, but Inferi are dead bodies, aren’t they? So they’d be solid —"
"A five-year-old could have told us as much,” sneered Snape. “The Inferius is a corpse that has been reanimated by a Dark wizard’s spells. It is not alive, it is merely used like a puppet to do the wizard’s bidding. A ghost, as I trust that you are all aware by now, is the imprint of a departed soul left upon the earth . . . and of course, as Potter so wisely tells us, transparent."
"Well, what Harry said is the most useful if we’re trying to tell them apart!” said Ron. “When we come face-to-face with one down a dark alley, we’re going to be having a shufti to see if it’s solid, aren’t we, we’re not going to be asking, ‘Excuse me, are you the imprint of a departed soul?’"
"Another ten points from Gryffindor,” said Snape. “I would expect nothing more sophisticated from you, Ronald Weasley, the boy so solid he cannot Apparate half an inch across a room."
"No!” whispered Hermione, grabbing Harry’s arm as he opened his mouth furiously. “There’s no point, you’ll just end up in detention again, leave it!"
"Now open your books to page two hundred and thirteen,” said Snape, smirking a little, “and read the first two paragraphs on the Cruciatus Curse. . . ."
"Snape’s right, though, isn’t he?” said Ron, after staring into a cracked mirror for a minute or two. “I dunno whether it’s worth me taking the test. I just can’t get the hang of Apparition."
"You might as well do the extra practice sessions in Hogsmeade and see where they get you,” said Harry reasonably. “It’ll be more interesting than trying to get into a stupid hoop anyway. Then, if you’re still not — you know — as good as you’d like to be, you can postpone the test, do it with me over the summ — Myrtle, this is the boys’ bathroom!"
"Oh,” she said glumly. “It’s you two."
"Who were you expecting?"
"Nobody,” said Myrtle, picking moodily at a spot on her chin. “He said he’d come back and see me, but then you said you’d pop in and visit me too” — she gave Harry a reproachful look — “and I haven’t seen you for months and months. I’ve learned not to expect too much from boys."
"I thought you lived in that girls’ bathroom?"
"I do,” she said, with a sulky little shrug, “but that doesn’t mean I can’t visit other places. I came and saw you in your bath once, remember?"
"Vividly,"
"But I thought he liked me,” she said plaintively. “Maybe if you two left, he’d come back again. . . . We had lots in common. . . . I’m sure he felt it. . . ."
"When you say you had lots in common,” said Ron, sounding rather amused now, “d’you mean he lives in an S-bend too?"
"No,” said Myrtle defiantly, her voice echoing loudly around the old tiled bathroom. “I mean he’s sensitive, people bully him too, and he feels lonely and hasn’t got anybody to talk to, and he’s not afraid to show his feelings and cry!"
"There’s been a boy in here crying?” said Harry curiously. “A young boy?"
"Never you mind!” said Myrtle, her small, leaky eyes fixed on Ron, who was now definitely grinning. “I promised I wouldn’t tell anyone, and I’ll take his secret to the —"
"— not the grave, surely?” said Ron with a snort. “The sewers, maybe . . ."
"You’re right,” he said, swinging his schoolbag back over his shoulder, “I’ll do the practice sessions in Hogsmeade before I decide about taking the test."
"You’d do better,” said Hermione, when he confided this plan to Ron and her in the entrance hall, “to go straight to Slughorn’s office and try and get that memory from him."
"I’ve been trying!"
"He doesn’t want to talk to me, Hermione! He can tell I’ve been trying to get him on his own again, and he’s not going to let it happen!"
"Well, you’ve just got to keep at it, haven’t you?"
"I solemnly swear that I am up to no good,"
"Hello . . . you’re very pretty, aren’t you?"
"OUCH!"
"Harry?"
"What’re you doing here?"
"I came to see Dumbledore,"
"His office isn’t here,” said Harry, “it’s round the other side of the castle, behind the gargoyle —"
"I know,” said Tonks. “He’s not there. Apparently he’s gone away again."
"Has he?” said Harry, putting his bruised foot gingerly back on the floor. “Hey — you don’t know where he goes, I suppose?"
"No,"
"What did you want to see him about?"
"Nothing in particular,” said Tonks, picking, apparently unconsciously, at the sleeve of her robe. “I just thought he might know what’s going on. . . . I’ve heard rumors . . . people getting hurt . . ."
"Yeah, I know, it’s all been in the papers,” said Harry. “That little kid trying to kill his —"
"The Prophet’s often behind the times,” said Tonks, who didn’t seem to be listening to him. “You haven’t had any letters from anyone in the Order recently?"
"No one from the Order writes to me anymore,” said Harry, “not since Sirius —"
"I’m sorry,” he muttered awkwardly. “I mean . . . I miss him, as well. . . ."
"What?” said Tonks blankly, as though she had not heard him. “Well . . . I’ll see you around, Harry . . ."
"I did it — well, kind of!” Ron told Harry enthusiastically when he caught sight of him. “I was supposed to be Apparating to outside Madam Puddifoot’s Tea Shop and I overshot it a bit, ended up near Scrivenshaft’s, but at least I moved!"
"Good one,” said Harry. “How’d you do, Hermione?"
"Oh, she was perfect, obviously,” said Ron, before Hermione could answer. “Perfect deliberation, divination, and desperation or whatever the hell it is — we all went for a quick drink in the Three Broomsticks after and you should’ve heard Twycross going on about her — I’ll be surprised if he doesn’t pop the question soon —"
"And what about you?” asked Hermione, ignoring Ron. “Have you been up at the Room of Requirement all this time?"
"Yep,” said Harry. “And guess who I ran into up there? Tonks!"
"Tonks?"
"Yeah, she said she’d come to visit Dumbledore. . . ."
"If you ask me,” said Ron once Harry had finished describing his conversation with Tonks, “she’s cracking up a bit. Losing her nerve after what happened at the Ministry."
"It’s a bit odd,” said Hermione, who for some reason looked very concerned. “She’s supposed to be guarding the school, why’s she suddenly abandoning her post to come and see Dumbledore when he’s not even here?"
"I had a thought,” said Harry tentatively. He felt strange about voicing it; this was much more Hermione’s territory than his. “You don’t think she can have been . . . you know . . . in love with Sirius?"
"What on earth makes you say that?"
"I dunno,” said Harry, shrugging, “but she was nearly crying when I mentioned his name . . . and her Patronus is a big four-legged thing now. . . . I wondered whether it hadn’t become . . . you know . . . him."
"It’s a thought,” said Hermione slowly. “But I still don’t know why she’d be bursting into the castle to see Dumbledore, if that’s really why she was here. . . ."
"Goes back to what I said, doesn’t it?” said Ron, who was now shoveling mashed potato into his mouth. “She’s gone a bit funny. Lost her nerve. Women,” he said wisely to Harry, “they’re easily upset."
"And yet,” said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, “I doubt you’d find a woman who sulked for half an hour because Madam Rosmerta didn’t laugh at their joke about the hag, the Healer, and the Mimbulus mimbletonia."
"For the last time, just forget about Malfoy,"
"It isn’t Lavender,"
"Oh, good,"
"Harry Potter?” said the girl. “I was asked to give you this."
"Thanks . . ."
"Dumbledore said we wouldn’t be having any more lessons until I got the memory!"
"Maybe he wants to check on how you’re doing?"
"Look at this,"
"Oh, for heaven’s sake,"
"He’s mental!” he said furiously. “That thing told its mates to eat Harry and me! Told them to help themselves! And now Hagrid expects us to go down there and cry over its horrible hairy body!"
"It’s not just that,” said Hermione. “He’s asking us to leave the castle at night and he knows security’s a million times tighter and how much trouble we’d be in if we were caught."
"We’ve been down to see him by night before,"
"Yes, but for something like this?” said Hermione. “We’ve risked a lot to help Hagrid out, but after all — Aragog’s dead. If it were a question of saving him —"
"— I’d want to go even less,” said Ron firmly. “You didn’t meet him, Hermione. Believe me, being dead will have improved him a lot."
"Harry, you can’t be thinking of going,” said Hermione. “It’s such a pointless thing to get detention for."
"Yeah, I know,” he said. “I s’pose Hagrid’ll have to bury Aragog without us."
"Yes, he will,” said Hermione, looking relieved. “Look, Potions will be almost empty this afternoon, with us all off doing our tests. . . . Try and soften Slughorn up a bit then!"
"Fifty-seventh time lucky, you think?"
"Lucky,” said Ron suddenly. “Harry, that’s it — get lucky!"
"What d’you mean?"
"Use your lucky potion!"
"Ron, that’s — that’s it!” said Hermione, sounding stunned. “Of course! Why didn’t I think of it?"
"Felix Felicis?” he said. “I dunno . . . I was sort of saving it. . . ."
"What for?"
"What on earth is more important than this memory, Harry?"
"Harry? Are you still with us?"
"Wha — ? Yeah, of course,” he said, pulling himself together. “Well . . . okay. If I can’t get Slughorn to talk this afternoon, I’ll take some Felix and have another go this evening."
"That’s decided, then,” said Hermione briskly, getting to her feet and performing a graceful pirouette. “Destination . . . determination . . . deliberation . . ."
"Oh, stop that,” Ron begged her, “I feel sick enough as it is — quick, hide me!"
"It isn’t Lavender!"
"Cool,” said Ron, peering over Hermione’s shoulder to check. “Blimey, they don’t look happy, do they?"
"They’re the Montgomery sisters and of course they don’t look happy, didn’t you hear what happened to their little brother?"
"I’m losing track of what’s happening to everyone’s relatives, to be honest,"
"Well, their brother was attacked by a werewolf. The rumor is that their mother refused to help the Death Eaters. Anyway, the boy was only five and he died in St. Mungo’s, they couldn’t save him."
"He died?” repeated Harry, shocked. “But surely werewolves don’t kill, they just turn you into one of them?"
"They sometimes kill,” said Ron, who looked unusually grave now. “I’ve heard of it happening when the werewolf gets carried away."
"What was the werewolf’s name?"
"Well, the rumor is that it was that Fenrir Greyback,"
"I knew it — the maniac who likes attacking kids, the one Lupin told me about!"
"Harry, you’ve got to get that memory,” she said. “It’s all about stopping Voldemort, isn’t it? These dreadful things that are happening are all down to him. . . ."
"You’ll do fine,” Harry told them both, as they headed toward the entrance hall to meet the rest of the people taking their Apparition Test. “Good luck."
"And you too!"
"All too young to Apparate just yet?” said Slughorn genially. “Not turned seventeen yet?"
"Ah well,” said Slughorn cheerily, “as we’re so few, we’ll do something fun. I want you all to brew me up something amusing!"
"That sounds good, sir,"
"What do you mean, ‘something amusing’?"
"Oh, surprise me,"
"An Elixir to Induce Euphoria,"
"Well, now, this looks absolutely wonderful,” said Slughorn an hour and a half later, clapping his hands together as he stared down into the sunshine yellow contents of Harry’s cauldron. “Euphoria, I take it? And what’s that I smell? Mmmm . . . you’ve added just a sprig of peppermint, haven’t you? Unorthodox, but what a stroke of inspiration, Harry, of course, that would tend to counterbalance the occasional side effects of excessive singing and nose-tweaking. . . . I really don’t know where you get these brain waves, my boy . . . unless —"
"— it’s just your mother’s genes coming out in you!"
"Oh . . . yeah, maybe,"
"passable."
"Sir,"
"Professor — Professor, don’t you want to taste my po — ?"
"Harry!” cried Hermione as she climbed through the portrait hole. “Harry, I passed!"
"Well done!” he said. “And Ron?"
"He — he just failed,” whispered Hermione, as Ron came slouching into the room looking most morose. “It was really unlucky, a tiny thing, the examiner just spotted that he’d left half an eyebrow behind. . . . How did it go with Slughorn?"
"No joy,” said Harry, as Ron joined them. “Bad luck, mate, but you’ll pass next time — we can take it together."
"Yeah, I s’pose,” said Ron grumpily. “But half an eyebrow! Like that matters!"
"I know,” said Hermione soothingly, “it does seem really harsh. . . ."
"So, Harry — you going to use the Felix Felicis or what?"
"Yeah, I s’pose I’d better,” said Harry. “I don’t reckon I’ll need all of it, not twelve hours’ worth, it can’t take all night. . . . I’ll just take a mouthful. Two or three hours should do it."
"It’s a great feeling when you take it,” said Ron reminiscently. “Like you can’t do anything wrong."
"What are you talking about?” said Hermione, laughing. “You’ve never taken any!"
"Yeah, but I thought I had, didn’t I?” said Ron, as though explaining the obvious. “Same difference really . . ."
"Well, here goes,"
"What does it feel like?"
"Excellent,” he said. “Really excellent. Right . . . I’m going down to Hagrid’s."
"What?"
"No, Harry — you’ve got to go and see Slughorn, remember?"
"No,” said Harry confidently. “I’m going to Hagrid’s, I’ve got a good feeling about going to Hagrid’s."
"You’ve got a good feeling about burying a giant spider?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, pulling his Invisibility Cloak out of his bag. “I feel like it’s the place to be tonight, you know what I mean?"
"No,"
"This is Felix Felicis, I suppose?” said Hermione anxiously, holding up the bottle to the light. “You haven’t got another little bottle full of — I don’t know —"
"Essence of Insanity?"
"Trust me,” he said. “I know what I’m doing . . . or at least” — he strolled confidently to the door — “Felix does."
"What were you doing up there with her?"
"Don’t push me, please, Dean,” she said, sounding annoyed. “You’re always doing that, I can get through perfectly well on my own. . . ."
"I do thank you for taking the time, Pomona,” Slughorn was saying courteously, “most authorities agree that they are at their most efficacious if picked at twilight."
"Oh, I quite agree,” said Professor Sprout warmly. “That enough for you?"
"Plenty, plenty,” said Slughorn, who, Harry saw, was carrying an armful of leafy plants. “This should allow for a few leaves for each of my third years, and some to spare if anybody over-stews them. . . . Well, good evening to you, and many thanks again!"
"Good evening, Professor."
"Merlin’s beard, Harry, you made me jump,” said Slughorn, stopping dead in his tracks and looking wary. “How did you get out of the castle?"
"I think Filch must’ve forgotten to lock the doors,"
"I’ll be reporting that man, he’s more concerned about litter than proper security if you ask me. . . . But why are you out here, Harry?"
"Well, sir, it’s Hagrid,” said Harry, who knew that the right thing to do just now was to tell the truth. “He’s pretty upset. . . . But you won’t tell anyone, Professor? I don’t want trouble for him. . . ."
"Well, I can’t promise that,” he said gruffly. “But I know that Dumbledore trusts Hagrid to the hilt, so I’m sure he can’t be up to anything very dreadful. . . ."
"Well, it’s this giant spider, he’s had it for years. . . . It lived in the forest. . . . It could talk and everything —"
"I heard rumors there were acromantulas in the forest,” said Slughorn softly, looking over at the mass of black trees. “It’s true, then?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “But this one, Aragog, the first one Hagrid ever got, it died last night. He’s devastated. He wants company while he buries it and I said I’d go."
"Touching, touching,” said Slughorn absentmindedly, his large droopy eyes fixed upon the distant lights of Hagrid’s cabin. “But acromantula venom is very valuable . . . If the beast only just died it might not yet have dried out. . . . Of course, I wouldn’t want to do anything insensitive if Hagrid is upset . . . but if there was any way to procure some . . . I mean, it’s almost impossible to get venom from an acromantula while it’s alive. . . ."
". . . seems an awful waste not to collect it . . . might get a hundred Galleons a pint. . . . To be frank, my salary is not large. . . ."
"Well,” he said, with a most convincing hesitancy, “well, if you wanted to come, Professor, Hagrid would probably be really pleased. . . . Give Aragog a better send-off, you know . . ."
"Yes, of course,” said Slughorn, his eyes now gleaming with enthusiasm. “I tell you what, Harry, I’ll meet you down there with a bottle or two. . . . We’ll drink the poor beast’s — well — not health — but we’ll send it off in style, anyway, once it’s buried. And I’ll change my tie, this one is a little exuberant for the occasion. . . ."
"Yeh came,"
"Yeah — Ron and Hermione couldn’t, though,” said Harry. “They’re really sorry."
"Don’ — don’ matter . . . He’d’ve bin touched yeh’re here, though, Harry. . . ."
"Where are we burying him?” he asked. “The forest?"
"Blimey, no,” said Hagrid, wiping his streaming eyes on the bottom of his shirt. “The other spiders won’ let me anywhere near their webs now Aragog’s gone. Turns out it was on’y on his orders they didn’ eat me! Can yeh believe that, Harry?"
"yes"
"Never bin an area o’ the forest I couldn’ go before!” said Hagrid, shaking his head. “It wasn’ easy, gettin’ Aragog’s body out o’ there, I can tell yeh — they usually eat their dead, see. . . . But I wanted ter give ’im a nice burial . . . a proper send-off . . ."
"Professor Slughorn met me coming down here, Hagrid."
"Not in trouble, are yeh?” said Hagrid, looking up, alarmed. “Yeh shouldn’ be outta the castle in the evenin’, I know it, it’s my fault —"
"No, no, when he heard what I was doing he said he’d like to come and pay his last respects to Aragog too,” said Harry. “He’s gone to change into something more suitable, I think . . . and he said he’d bring some bottles so we can drink to Aragog’s memory. . . ."
"Did he?” said Hagrid, looking both astonished and touched. “Tha’s — tha’s righ’ nice of him, that is, an’ not turnin’ yeh in either. I’ve never really had a lot ter do with Horace Slughorn before. . . . Comin’ ter see old Aragog off, though, eh? Well . . . he’d’ve liked that, Aragog would. . . ."
"Are we going to bury him here, Hagrid, in your garden?"
"Jus’ beyond the pumpkin patch, I thought,” said Hagrid in a choked voice. “I’ve already dug the — yeh know — grave. Jus’ thought we’d say a few nice things over him — happy memories, yeh know —"
"Hagrid,” he said, in a deep, grave voice. “So very sorry to hear of your loss."
"Tha’s very nice of yeh,” said Hagrid. “Thanks a lot. An’ thanks fer not givin’ Harry detention neither. . . ."
"Wouldn’t have dreamed of it,” said Slughorn. “Sad night, sad night . . . Where is the poor creature?"
"Out here,” said Hagrid in a shaking voice. “Shall we — shall we do it, then?"
"Magnificent,"
"It’s not ev’ryone appreciates how beau’iful they are,” said Hagrid to Slughorn’s back, tears leaking from the corners of his crinkled eyes. “I didn’ know yeh were int’rested in creatures like Aragog, Horace."
"Interested? My dear Hagrid, I revere them,” said Slughorn, stepping back from the body. Harry saw the glint of a bottle disappear beneath his cloak, though Hagrid, mopping his eyes once more, noticed nothing. “Now . . . shall we proceed to the burial?"
"Of course, it’s difficult for you, who knew him best,” said Slughorn, who like Harry could reach no higher than Hagrid’s elbow, but patted it all the same. “Why don’t I say a few words?"
"Farewell, Aragog, king of arachnids, whose long and faithful friendship those who knew you won’t forget! Though your body will decay, your spirit lingers on in the quiet, web-spun places of your forest home. May your many-eyed descendants ever flourish and your human friends find solace for the loss they have sustained."
"Tha’ was . . . tha’ was . . . beau’iful!"
"There, there,” said Slughorn, waving his wand so that the huge pile of earth rose up and then fell, with a muffled sort of crash, onto the dead spider, forming a smooth mound. “Let’s get inside and have a drink. Get on his other side, Harry. . . . That’s it. . . . Up you come, Hagrid . . . Well done . . ."
"I have had it all tested for poison,” he assured Harry, pouring most of the first bottle into one of Hagrid’s bucket-sized mugs and handing it to Hagrid. “Had a house-elf taste every bottle after what happened to your poor friend Rupert."
"One for Harry . . .” said Slughorn, dividing a second bottle between two mugs, “. . . and one for me. Well” — he raised his mug high — “to Aragog."
"Aragog,"
"I had him from an egg, yeh know,” said Hagrid morosely. “Tiny little thing he was when he hatched. ’Bout the size of a Pekingese."
"Sweet,"
"Used ter keep him in a cupboard up at the school until . . . well . . ."
"That’s never unicorn hair, Hagrid?"
"Oh, yeah,” said Hagrid indifferently. “Gets pulled out of their tails, they catch it on branches an’ stuff in the forest, yeh know . . ."
"But my dear chap, do you know how much that’s worth?"
"I use it fer bindin’ on bandages an’ stuff if a creature gets injured,” said Hagrid, shrugging. “It’s dead useful . . . very strong, see."
"Harry Potter!"
"Yes, indeed,” cried Slughorn a little thickly, “Parry Otter, the Chosen Boy Who — well — something of that sort,"
"To friendship! To generosity! To ten Galleons a hair!"
"Aaargh, the good die young,” muttered Hagrid, slumping low onto the table, a little cross-eyed, while Slughorn continued to warble the refrain. “Me dad was no age ter go . . . nor were yer mum an’ dad, Harry . . ."
"Bes’ wiz and witchard o’ their age I never knew . . . terrible thing . . . terrible thing . . ."
". . . terrible,"
"Sorry,” said Slughorn with a hiccup. “Can’t carry a tune to save my life."
"Hagrid wasn’t talking about your singing,” said Harry quietly. “He was talking about my mum and dad dying."
"Oh,” said Slughorn, repressing a large belch. “Oh dear. Yes, that was — was terrible indeed. Terrible . . . terrible . . ."
"I don’t — don’t suppose you remember it, Harry?"
"No — well, I was only one when they died,” said Harry, his eyes on the flame of the candle flickering in Hagrid’s heavy snores. “But I’ve found out pretty much what happened since. My dad died first. Did you know that?"
"I — I didn’t,"
"Yeah . . . Voldemort murdered him and then stepped over his body toward my mum,"
"He told her to get out of the way,” said Harry remorselessly. “He told me she needn’t have died. He only wanted me. She could have run."
"Oh dear,” breathed Slughorn. “She could have . . . she needn’t . . . That’s awful. . . ."
"It is, isn’t it?” said Harry, in a voice barely more than a whisper. “But she didn’t move. Dad was already dead, but she didn’t want me to go too. She tried to plead with Voldemort . . . but he just laughed. . . ."
"That’s enough!” said Slughorn suddenly, raising a shaking hand. “Really, my dear boy, enough . . . I’m an old man . . . I don’t need to hear . . . I don’t want to hear . . ."
"I forgot,” lied Harry, Felix Felicis leading him on. “You liked her, didn’t you?"
"Liked her?” said Slughorn, his eyes brimming with tears once more. “I don’t imagine anyone who met her wouldn’t have liked her. . . . Very brave . . . Very funny . . . It was the most horrible thing. . . ."
"But you won’t help her son,” said Harry. “She gave me her life, but you won’t give me a memory."
"Don’t say that,” he whispered. “It isn’t a question . . . If it were to help you, of course . . . but no purpose can be served . . ."
"It can,” said Harry clearly. “Dumbledore needs information. I need information."
"I am the Chosen One. I have to kill him. I need that memory."
"You are the Chosen One?"
"Of course I am,"
"But then . . . my dear boy . . . you’re asking a great deal . . . you’re asking me, in fact, to aid you in your attempt to destroy —"
"You don’t want to get rid of the wizard who killed Lily Evans?"
"Harry, Harry, of course I do, but —"
"You’re scared he’ll find out you helped me?"
"Be brave like my mother, Professor. . . ."
"I am not proud . . .” he whispered through his fingers. “I am ashamed of what — of what that memory shows. . . . I think I may have done great damage that day. . . ."
"You’d cancel out anything you did by giving me the memory,” said Harry. “It would be a very brave and noble thing to do."
"Thank you very much, Professor."
"You’re a good boy,” said Professor Slughorn, tears trickling down his fat cheeks into his walrus mustache. “And you’ve got her eyes. . . . Just don’t think too badly of me once you’ve seen it. . . ."
"What sort of time do you call this?"
"I’m really sorry — I had to go out for something important —"
"Well, the password changed at midnight, so you’ll just have to sleep in the corridor, won’t you?"
"You’re joking!” said Harry. “Why did it have to change at midnight?"
"That’s the way it is,” said the Fat Lady. “If you’re angry, go and take it up with the headmaster, he’s the one who’s tightened security."
"Fantastic,” said Harry bitterly, looking around at the hard floor. “Really brilliant. Yeah, I would go and take it up with Dumbledore if he was here, because he’s the one who wanted me to —"
"He is here,” said a voice behind Harry. “Professor Dumbledore returned to the school an hour ago."
"I had it from the Bloody Baron, who saw him arrive,” said Nick. “He appeared, according to the Baron, to be in good spirits, though a little tired, of course."
"Where is he?"
"Oh, groaning and clanking up on the Astronomy Tower, it’s a favorite pastime of his —"
"Not the Bloody Baron — Dumbledore!"
"Oh — in his office,” said Nick. “I believe, from what the Baron said, that he had business to attend to before turning in —"
"Yeah, he has,"
"Come back! All right, I lied! I was annoyed you woke me up! The password’s still ‘tapeworm’!"
"toffee éclairs"
"Enter,"
"Good gracious, Harry,” said Dumbledore in surprise. “To what do I owe this very late pleasure?"
"Sir — I’ve got it. I’ve got the memory from Slughorn."
"Harry, this is spectacular news! Very well done indeed! I knew you could do it!"
"And now,” said Dumbledore, placing the stone basin upon his desk and emptying the contents of the bottle into it. “Now, at last, we shall see. Harry, quickly . . ."
"Sir, is it true that Professor Merrythought is retiring?"
"Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell you,” said Slughorn, wagging his finger reprovingly at Riddle, though winking at the same time. “I must say, I’d like to know where you get your information, boy, more knowledgeable than half the staff, you are."
"What with your uncanny ability to know things you shouldn’t, and your careful flattery of the people who matter — thank you for the pineapple, by the way, you’re quite right, it is my favorite —"
"— I confidently expect you to rise to Minister of Magic within twenty years. Fifteen, if you keep sending me pineapple, I have excellent contacts at the Ministry."
"I don’t know that politics would suit me, sir,” he said when the laughter had died away. “I don’t have the right kind of background, for one thing."
"Nonsense,” said Slughorn briskly, “couldn’t be plainer you come from decent Wizarding stock, abilities like yours. No, you’ll go far, Tom, I’ve never been wrong about a student yet."
"Good gracious, is it that time already? You’d better get going, boys, or we’ll all be in trouble. Lestrange, I want your essay by tomorrow or it’s detention. Same goes for you, Avery."
"Look sharp, Tom, you don’t want to be caught out of bed out of hours, and you a prefect . . ."
"Sir, I wanted to ask you something."
"Ask away, then, m’boy, ask away. . . ."
"Sir, I wondered what you know about . . . about Horcruxes?"
"Project for Defense Against the Dark Arts, is it?"
"Not exactly, sir,” said Riddle. “I came across the term while reading and I didn’t fully understand it."
"No . . . well . . . you’d be hard-pushed to find a book at Hogwarts that’ll give you details on Horcruxes, Tom, that’s very Dark stuff, very Dark indeed,"
"But you obviously know all about them, sir? I mean, a wizard like you — sorry, I mean, if you can’t tell me, obviously — I just knew if anyone could tell me, you could — so I just thought I’d ask —"
"Well,” said Slughorn, not looking at Riddle, but fiddling with the ribbon on top of his box of crystalized pineapple, “well, it can’t hurt to give you an overview, of course. Just so that you understand the term. A Horcrux is the word used for an object in which a person has concealed part of their soul."
"I don’t quite understand how that works, though, sir,"
"Well, you split your soul, you see,” said Slughorn, “and hide part of it in an object outside the body. Then, even if one’s body is attacked or destroyed, one cannot die, for part of the soul remains earthbound and undamaged. But of course, existence in such a form . . ."
"I was ripped from my body, I was less than spirit, less than the meanest ghost . . . but still, I was alive."
". . . few would want it, Tom, very few. Death would be preferable."
"How do you split your soul?"
"Well,” said Slughorn uncomfortably, “you must understand that the soul is supposed to remain intact and whole. Splitting it is an act of violation, it is against nature."
"But how do you do it?"
"By an act of evil — the supreme act of evil. By committing murder. Killing rips the soul apart. The wizard intent upon creating a Horcrux would use the damage to his advantage: He would encase the torn portion —"
"Encase? But how — ?"
"There is a spell, do not ask me, I don’t know!” said Slughorn, shaking his head like an old elephant bothered by mosquitoes. “Do I look as though I have tried it — do I look like a killer?"
"No, sir, of course not,” said Riddle quickly. “I’m sorry . . . I didn’t mean to offend . . ."
"Not at all, not at all, not offended,” said Slughorn gruffly. “It’s natural to feel some curiosity about these things. . . . Wizards of a certain caliber have always been drawn to that aspect of magic. . . ."
"Yes, sir,” said Riddle. “What I don’t understand, though — just out of curiosity — I mean, would one Horcrux be much use? Can you only split your soul once? Wouldn’t it be better, make you stronger, to have your soul in more pieces, I mean, for instance, isn’t seven the most powerfully magical number, wouldn’t seven — ?"
"Merlin’s beard, Tom!” yelped Slughorn. “Seven! Isn’t it bad enough to think of killing one person? And in any case . . . bad enough to divide the soul . . . but to rip it into seven pieces . . ."
"Of course,” he muttered, “this is all hypothetical, what we’re discussing, isn’t it? All academic . . ."
"Yes, sir, of course,"
"But all the same, Tom . . . keep it quiet, what I’ve told — that’s to say, what we’ve discussed. People wouldn’t like to think we’ve been chatting about Horcruxes. It’s a banned subject at Hogwarts, you know. . . . Dumbledore’s particularly fierce about it. . . ."
"I won’t say a word, sir,"
"Thank you, Harry,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Let us go. . . ."
"I have been hoping for this piece of evidence for a very long time,” said Dumbledore at last. “It confirms the theory on which I have been working, it tells me that I am right, and also how very far there is still to go. . . ."
"Well, Harry,” said Dumbledore, “I am sure you understood the significance of what we just heard. At the same age as you are now, give or take a few months, Tom Riddle was doing all he could to find out how to make himself immortal."
"You think he succeeded then, sir?” asked Harry. “He made a Horcrux? And that’s why he didn’t die when he attacked me? He had a Horcrux hidden somewhere? A bit of his soul was safe?"
"A bit . . . or more,” said Dumbledore. “You heard Voldemort: What he particularly wanted from Horace was an opinion on what would happen to the wizard who created more than one Horcrux, what would happen to the wizard so determined to evade death that he would be prepared to murder many times, rip his soul repeatedly, so as to store it in many, separately concealed Horcruxes. No book would have given him that information. As far as I know — as far, I am sure, as Voldemort knew — no wizard had ever done more than tear his soul in two."
"Four years ago, I received what I considered certain proof that Voldemort had split his soul."
"Where?” asked Harry. “How?"
"You handed it to me, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “The diary, Riddle’s diary, the one giving instructions on how to reopen the Chamber of Secrets."
"I don’t understand, sir,"
"What intrigued and alarmed me most was that that diary had been intended as a weapon as much as a safeguard."
"I still don’t understand,"
"Well, it worked as a Horcrux is supposed to work — in other words, the fragment of soul concealed inside it was kept safe and had undoubtedly played its part in preventing the death of its owner. But there could be no doubt that Riddle really wanted that diary read, wanted the piece of his soul to inhabit or possess somebody else, so that Slytherin’s monster would be unleashed again."
"Well, he didn’t want his hard work to be wasted,” said Harry. “He wanted people to know he was Slytherin’s heir, because he couldn’t take credit at the time."
"Quite correct,"
"Then you told me, two years later, that on the night that Voldemort returned to his body, he made a most illuminating and alarming statement to his Death Eaters. ‘I, who have gone further than anybody along the path that leads to immortality.’ That was what you told me he said. ‘Further than anybody.’ And I thought I knew what that meant, though the Death Eaters did not. He was referring to his Horcruxes, Horcruxes in the plural, Harry, which I do not believe any other wizard has ever had. Yet it fitted: Lord Voldemort has seemed to grow less human with the passing years, and the transformation he has undergone seemed to me to be only explicable if his soul was mutilated beyond the realms of what we might call ‘usual evil’ . . ."
"So he’s made himself impossible to kill by murdering other people?” said Harry. “Why couldn’t he make a Sorcerer’s Stone, or steal one, if he was so interested in immortality?"
"Well, we know that he tried to do just that, five years ago,"
"But now, Harry, armed with this information, the crucial memory you have succeeded in procuring for us, we are closer to the secret of finishing Lord Voldemort than anyone has ever been before. You heard him, Harry: ‘Wouldn’t it be better, make you stronger, to have your soul in more pieces . . . isn’t seven the most powerfully magical number . . . ’ Isn’t seven the most powerfully magical number. Yes, I think the idea of a seven-part soul would greatly appeal to Lord Voldemort."
"He made seven Horcruxes?” said Harry, horror-struck, while several of the portraits on the walls made similar noises of shock and outrage. “But they could be anywhere in the world — hidden — buried or invisible —"
"I am glad to see you appreciate the magnitude of the problem,” said Dumbledore calmly. “But firstly, no, Harry, not seven Horcruxes: six. The seventh part of his soul, however maimed, resides inside his regenerated body. That was the part of him that lived a spectral existence for so many years during his exile; without that, he has no self at all. That seventh piece of soul will be the last that anybody wishing to kill Voldemort must attack — the piece that lives in his body."
"But the six Horcruxes, then,” said Harry, a little desperately, “how are we supposed to find them?"
"You are forgetting . . . you have already destroyed one of them. And I have destroyed another."
"You have?"
"Yes indeed,” said Dumbledore, and he raised his blackened, burned-looking hand. “The ring, Harry. Marvolo’s ring. And a terrible curse there was upon it too. Had it not been — forgive me the lack of seemly modesty — for my own prodigious skill, and for Professor Snape’s timely action when I returned to Hogwarts, desperately injured, I might not have lived to tell the tale. However, a withered hand does not seem an unreasonable exchange for a seventh of Voldemort’s soul. The ring is no longer a Horcrux."
"But how did you find it?"
"However, we should not congratulate ourselves too heartily. You destroyed the diary and I the ring, but if we are right in our theory of a seven-part soul, four Horcruxes remain."
"And they could be anything?” said Harry. “They could be old tin cans or, I dunno, empty potion bottles. . . ."
"You are thinking of Portkeys, Harry, which must be ordinary objects, easy to overlook. But would Lord Voldemort use tin cans or old potion bottles to guard his own precious soul? You are forgetting what I have showed you. Lord Voldemort liked to collect trophies, and he preferred objects with a powerful magical history. His pride, his belief in his own superiority, his determination to carve for himself a startling place in magical history; these things suggest to me that Voldemort would have chosen his Horcruxes with some care, favoring objects worthy of the honor."
"The diary wasn’t that special."
"The diary, as you have said yourself, was proof that he was the Heir of Slytherin; I am sure that Voldemort considered it of stupendous importance."
"So, the other Horcruxes?” said Harry. “Do you think you know what they are, sir?"
"I can only guess,” said Dumbledore. “For the reasons I have already given, I believe that Lord Voldemort would prefer objects that, in themselves, have a certain grandeur. I have therefore trawled back through Voldemort’s past to see if I can find evidence that such artifacts have disappeared around him."
"The locket!” said Harry loudly. “Hufflepuff’s cup!"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore, smiling, “I would be prepared to bet — perhaps not my other hand — but a couple of fingers, that they became Horcruxes three and four. The remaining two, assuming again that he created a total of six, are more of a problem, but I will hazard a guess that, having secured objects from Hufflepuff and Slytherin, he set out to track down objects owned by Gryffindor or Ravenclaw. Four objects from the four founders would, I am sure, have exerted a powerful pull over Voldemort’s imagination. I cannot answer for whether he ever managed to find anything of Ravenclaw’s. I am confident, however, that the only known relic of Gryffindor remains safe."
"Do you think that’s why he really wanted to come back to Hogwarts, sir?” said Harry. “To try and find something from one of the other founders?"
"My thoughts precisely,” said Dumbledore. “But unfortunately, that does not advance us much further, for he was turned away, or so I believe, without the chance to search the school. I am forced to conclude that he never fulfilled his ambition of collecting four founders’ objects. He definitely had two — he may have found three — that is the best we can do for now."
"Even if he got something of Ravenclaw’s or of Gryffindor’s, that leaves a sixth Horcrux,” said Harry, counting on his fingers. “Unless he got both?"
"I don’t think so,” said Dumbledore. “I think I know what the sixth Horcrux is. I wonder what you will say when I confess that I have been curious for a while about the behavior of the snake, Nagini?"
"The snake?” said Harry, startled. “You can use animals as Horcruxes?"
"Well, it is inadvisable to do so,"
"As we know, he failed. After an interval of some years, however, he used Nagini to kill an old Muggle man, and it might then have occurred to him to turn her into his last Horcrux. She underlines the Slytherin connection, which enhances Lord Voldemort’s mystique; I think he is perhaps as fond of her as he can be of anything; he certainly likes to keep her close, and he seems to have an unusual amount of control over her, even for a Parselmouth."
"So,” said Harry, “the diary’s gone, the ring’s gone. The cup, the locket, and the snake are still intact, and you think there might be a Horcrux that was once Ravenclaw’s or Gryffindor’s?"
"An admirably succinct and accurate summary, yes,"
"So . . . are you still looking for them, sir? Is that where you’ve been going when you’ve been leaving the school?"
"Correct,” said Dumbledore. “I have been looking for a very long time. I think . . . perhaps . . . I may be close to finding another one. There are hopeful signs."
"And if you do,” said Harry quickly, “can I come with you and help get rid of it?"
"Yes, I think so."
"I can?"
"Oh yes,” said Dumbledore, smiling slightly. “I think you have earned that right."
"Does Voldemort know when a Horcrux is destroyed, sir? Can he feel it?"
"A very interesting question, Harry. I believe not. I believe that Voldemort is now so immersed in evil, and these crucial parts of himself have been detached for so long, he does not feel as we do. Perhaps, at the point of death, he might be aware of his loss . . . but he was not aware, for instance, that the diary had been destroyed until he forced the truth out of Lucius Malfoy. When Voldemort discovered that the diary had been mutilated and robbed of all its powers, I am told that his anger was terrible to behold."
"But I thought he meant Lucius Malfoy to smuggle it into Hogwarts?"
"No doubt he thought that Lucius would not dare do anything with the Horcrux other than guard it carefully, but he was counting too much upon Lucius’s fear of a master who had been gone for years and whom Lucius believed dead. Of course, Lucius did not know what the diary really was. I understand that Voldemort had told him the diary would cause the Chamber of Secrets to reopen because it was cleverly enchanted. Had Lucius known he held a portion of his master’s soul in his hands, he would undoubtedly have treated it with more reverence — but instead he went ahead and carried out the old plan for his own ends: By planting the diary upon Arthur Weasley’s daughter, he hoped to discredit Arthur and get rid of a highly incriminating magical object in one stroke. Ah, poor Lucius . . . what with Voldemort’s fury about the fact that he threw away the Horcrux for his own gain, and the fiasco at the Ministry last year, I would not be surprised if he is not secretly glad to be safe in Azkaban at the moment."
"So if all of his Horcruxes are destroyed, Voldemort could be killed?"
"Yes, I think so,” said Dumbledore. “Without his Horcruxes, Voldemort will be a mortal man with a maimed and diminished soul. Never forget, though, that while his soul may be damaged beyond repair, his brain and his magical powers remain intact. It will take uncommon skill and power to kill a wizard like Voldemort even without his Horcruxes."
"But I haven’t got uncommon skill and power,"
"Yes, you have,” said Dumbledore firmly. “You have a power that Voldemort has never had. You can —"
"I know!” said Harry impatiently. “I can love!” It was only with difficulty that he stopped himself adding, “Big deal!"
"Yes, Harry, you can love,” said Dumbledore, who looked as though he knew perfectly well what Harry had just refrained from saying. “Which, given everything that has happened to you, is a great and remarkable thing. You are still too young to understand how unusual you are, Harry."
"So, when the prophecy says that I’ll have ‘power the Dark Lord knows not,’ it just means — love?"
"Yes — just love,” said Dumbledore. “But Harry, never forget that what the prophecy says is only significant because Voldemort made it so. I told you this at the end of last year. Voldemort singled you out as the person who would be most dangerous to him — and in doing so, he made you the person who would be most dangerous to him!"
"But it comes to the same —"
"No, it doesn’t!” said Dumbledore, sounding impatient now. Pointing at Harry with his black, withered hand, he said, “You are setting too much store by the prophecy!"
"But,” spluttered Harry, “but you said the prophecy means —"
"If Voldemort had never heard of the prophecy, would it have been fulfilled? Would it have meant anything? Of course not! Do you think every prophecy in the Hall of Prophecy has been fulfilled?"
"But,” said Harry, bewildered, “but last year, you said one of us would have to kill the other —"
"Harry, Harry, only because Voldemort made a grave error, and acted on Professor Trelawney’s words! If Voldemort had never murdered your father, would he have imparted in you a furious desire for revenge? Of course not! If he had not forced your mother to die for you, would he have given you a magical protection he could not penetrate? Of course not, Harry! Don’t you see? Voldemort himself created his worst enemy, just as tyrants everywhere do! Have you any idea how much tyrants fear the people they oppress? All of them realize that, one day, amongst their many victims, there is sure to be one who rises against them and strikes back! Voldemort is no different! Always he was on the lookout for the one who would challenge him. He heard the prophecy and he leapt into action, with the result that he not only handpicked the man most likely to finish him, he handed him uniquely deadly weapons!"
"But —"
"It is essential that you understand this!” said Dumbledore, standing up and striding about the room, his glittering robes swooshing in his wake; Harry had never seen him so agitated. “By attempting to kill you, Voldemort himself singled out the remarkable person who sits here in front of me, and gave him the tools for the job! It is Voldemort’s fault that you were able to see into his thoughts, his ambitions, that you even understand the snakelike language in which he gives orders, and yet, Harry, despite your privileged insight into Voldemort’s world (which, incidentally, is a gift any Death Eater would kill to have), you have never been seduced by the Dark Arts, never, even for a second, shown the slightest desire to become one of Voldemort’s followers!"
"Of course I haven’t!” said Harry indignantly. “He killed my mum and dad!"
"You are protected, in short, by your ability to love!"
"But he knows it now. You have flitted into Lord Voldemort’s mind without damage to yourself, but he cannot possess you without enduring mortal agony, as he discovered in the Ministry. I do not think he understands why, Harry, but then, he was in such a hurry to mutilate his own soul, he never paused to understand the incomparable power of a soul that is untarnished and whole."
"But, sir,” said Harry, making valiant efforts not to sound argumentative, “it all comes to the same thing, doesn’t it? I’ve got to try and kill him, or —"
"Got to?” said Dumbledore. “Of course you’ve got to! But not because of the prophecy! Because you, yourself, will never rest until you’ve tried! We both know it! Imagine, please, just for a moment, that you had never heard that prophecy! How would you feel about Voldemort now? Think!"
"I’d want him finished,” said Harry quietly. “And I’d want to do it."
"Of course you would!” cried Dumbledore. “You see, the prophecy does not mean you have to do anything! But the prophecy caused Lord Voldemort to mark you as his equal. . . . In other words, you are free to choose your way, quite free to turn your back on the prophecy! But Voldemort continues to set store by the prophecy. He will continue to hunt you . . . which makes it certain, really, that —"
"That one of us is going to end up killing the other,” said Harry. “Yes."
"Wow,” said Ron, when Harry had finally finished telling them everything; Ron was waving his wand very vaguely in the direction of the ceiling without paying the slightest bit of attention to what he was doing. “Wow. You’re actually going to go with Dumbledore . . . and try and destroy . . . wow."
"Ron, you’re making it snow,"
"Oh yeah,” said Ron, looking down at his shoulders in vague surprise. “Sorry . . . looks like we’ve all got horrible dandruff now. . . ."
"We split up,” he told Harry out of the corner of his mouth. “Last night. When she saw me coming out of the dormitory with Hermione. Obviously she couldn’t see you, so she thought it had just been the two of us."
"Ah,” said Harry. “Well — you don’t mind it’s over, do you?"
"No,” Ron admitted. “It was pretty bad while she was yelling, but at least I didn’t have to finish it."
"Coward,” said Hermione, though she looked amused. “Well, it was a bad night for romance all around. Ginny and Dean split up too, Harry."
"How come?"
"Oh, something really silly . . . She said he was always trying to help her through the portrait hole, like she couldn’t climb in herself . . . but they’ve been a bit rocky for ages."
"Of course, this puts you in a bit of a dilemma, doesn’t it?"
"What d’you mean?"
"The Quidditch team,” said Hermione. “If Ginny and Dean aren’t speaking . . ."
"Oh — oh yeah,"
"Flitwick,"
"Now, now, boys,” squeaked Professor Flitwick reproachfully. “A little less talk, a little more action . . . Let me see you try. . . ."
"Yes . . . for homework,” said Professor Flitwick, reemerging from under the table and pulling shards of glass out of the top of his hat, “practice."
"It’s a nice day."
"Katie! You’re back! Are you okay?"
"I’m really well!” she said happily. “They let me out of St. Mungo’s on Monday, I had a couple of days at home with Mum and Dad and then came back here this morning. Leanne was just telling me about McLaggen and the last match, Harry. . . ."
"Yeah,” said Harry, “well, now you’re back and Ron’s fit, we’ll have a decent chance of thrashing Ravenclaw, which means we could still be in the running for the Cup. Listen, Katie . . ."
". . . that necklace . . . can you remember who gave it to you now?"
"No,” said Katie, shaking her head ruefully. “Everyone’s been asking me, but I haven’t got a clue. The last thing I remember was walking into the ladies’ in the Three Broomsticks."
"You definitely went into the bathroom, then?"
"Well, I know I pushed open the door,” said Katie, “so I suppose whoever Imperiused me was standing just behind it. After that, my memory’s a blank until about two weeks ago in St. Mungo’s. Listen, I’d better go, I wouldn’t put it past McGonagall to give me lines even if it is my first day back. . . ."
"So it must have been a girl or a woman who gave Katie the necklace,” said Hermione, “to be in the ladies’ bathroom."
"Or someone who looked like a girl or a woman,” said Harry. “Don’t forget, there was a cauldron full of Polyjuice Potion at Hogwarts. We know some of it got stolen. . . ."
"I think I’m going to take another swig of Felix,” said Harry, “and have a go at the Room of Requirement again."
"That would be a complete waste of potion,” said Hermione flatly, putting down the copy of Spellman’s Syllabary she had just taken out of her bag. “Luck can only get you so far, Harry. The situation with Slughorn was different; you always had the ability to persuade him, you just needed to tweak the circumstances a bit. Luck isn’t enough to get you through a powerful enchantment, though. Don’t go wasting the rest of that potion! You’ll need all the luck you can get if Dumbledore takes you along with him . . ."
"Couldn’t we make some more?” Ron asked Harry, ignoring Hermione. “It’d be great to have a stock of it. . . . Have a look in the book . . ."
"Blimey, it’s seriously complicated,” he said, running an eye down the list of ingredients. “And it takes six months . . . You’ve got to let it stew. . . ."
"Typical,"
"For Enemies,"
"tweaking the circumstances"
"Don’t,” crooned Moaning Myrtle’s voice from one of the cubicles. “Don’t . . . tell me what’s wrong . . . I can help you. . . ."
"No one can help me,” said Malfoy. His whole body was shaking. “I can’t do it. . . . I can’t. . . . It won’t work . . . and unless I do it soon . . . he says he’ll kill me. . . ."
"No! No! Stop it!” squealed Moaning Myrtle, her voice echoing loudly around the tiled room. “Stop! STOP!"
"Cruci —"
"SECTUMSEMPRA!"
"No —"
"No — I didn’t —"
"MURDER! MURDER IN THE BATHROOM! MURDER!"
"You need the hospital wing. There may be a certain amount of scarring, but if you take dittany immediately we might avoid even that. . . . Come. . . ."
"And you, Potter . . . You wait here for me."
"Go,"
"I didn’t mean it to happen,” said Harry at once. His voice echoed in the cold, watery space. “I didn’t know what that spell did."
"Apparently I underestimated you, Potter,” he said quietly. “Who would have thought you knew such Dark Magic? Who taught you that spell?"
"I — read about it somewhere."
"Where?"
"It was — a library book,” Harry invented wildly. “I can’t remember what it was call —"
"Liar,"
"Bring me your schoolbag,” said Snape softly, “and all of your schoolbooks. All of them. Bring them to me here. Now!"
"Where’ve you — ? Why are you soaking — ? Is that blood?"
"I need your book,” Harry panted. “Your Potions book. Quick . . . give it to me . . ."
"But what about the Half-Blood —"
"I’ll explain later!"
"This is your copy of Advanced Potion-Making, is it, Potter?"
"Yes,"
"You’re quite sure of that, are you, Potter?"
"Yes,"
"This is the copy of Advanced Potion-Making that you purchased from Flourish and Blotts?"
"Yes,"
"Then why,” asked Snape, “does it have the name ‘Roonil Wazlib’ written inside the front cover?"
"That’s my nickname,"
"Your nickname,"
"Yeah . . . that’s what my friends call me,"
"I understand what a nickname is,"
"Do you know what I think, Potter?” said Snape, very quietly. “I think that you are a liar and a cheat and that you deserve detention with me every Saturday until the end of term. What do you think, Potter?"
"I — I don’t agree, sir,"
"Well, we shall see how you feel after your detentions,” said Snape. “Ten o’clock Saturday morning, Potter. My office."
"But sir . . .” said Harry, looking up desperately. “Quidditch . . . the last match of the . . ."
"Ten o’clock,” whispered Snape, with a smile that showed his yellow teeth. “Poor Gryffindor . . . fourth place this year, I fear . . ."
"I won’t say ‘I told you so,’"
"Leave it, Hermione,"
"I told you there was something wrong with that Prince person,” Hermione said, evidently unable to stop herself. “And I was right, wasn’t I?"
"No, I don’t think you were,"
"Harry,” said Hermione, “how can you still stick up for that book when that spell —"
"Will you stop harping on about the book!” snapped Harry. “The Prince only copied it out! It’s not like he was advising anyone to use it! For all we know, he was making a note of something that had been used against him!"
"I don’t believe this,” said Hermione. “You’re actually defending —"
"I’m not defending what I did!” said Harry quickly. “I wish I hadn’t done it, and not just because I’ve got about a dozen detentions. You know I wouldn’t’ve used a spell like that, not even on Malfoy, but you can’t blame the Prince, he hadn’t written ‘try this out, it’s really good’ — he was just making notes for himself, wasn’t he, not for anyone else. . . ."
"Are you telling me,” said Hermione, “that you’re going to go back — ?"
"And get the book? Yeah, I am,” said Harry forcefully. “Listen, without the Prince I’d never have won the Felix Felicis. I’d never have known how to save Ron from poisoning, I’d never have —"
"— got a reputation for Potions brilliance you don’t deserve,"
"Give it a rest, Hermione!” said Ginny, and Harry was so amazed, so grateful, he looked up. “By the sound of it, Malfoy was trying to use an Unforgivable Curse, you should be glad Harry had something good up his sleeve!"
"Well, of course I’m glad Harry wasn’t cursed!” said Hermione, clearly stung. “But you can’t call that Sectumsempra spell good, Ginny, look where it’s landed him! And I’d have thought, seeing what this has done to your chances in the match —"
"Oh, don’t start acting as though you understand Quidditch,” snapped Ginny, “you’ll only embarrass yourself."
"Ah, Potter,"
"Mr. Filch has been looking for someone to clear out these old files,” said Snape softly. “They are the records of other Hogwarts wrongdoers and their punishments. Where the ink has grown faint, or the cards have suffered damage from mice, we would like you to copy out the crimes and punishments afresh and, making sure that they are in alphabetical order, replace them in the boxes. You will not use magic."
"Right, Professor,"
"I thought you could start,” said Snape, a malicious smile on his lips, “with boxes one thousand and twelve to one thousand and fifty-six. You will find some familiar names in there, which should add interest to the task. Here, you see . . ."
"‘James Potter and Sirius Black. Apprehended using an illegal hex upon Bertram Aubrey. Aubrey’s head twice normal size. Double detention.’” Snape sneered. “It must be such a comfort to think that, though they are gone, a record of their great achievements remains. . . ."
"I think that will do,” he said coldly. “Mark the place you have reached. You will continue at ten o’clock next Saturday."
"Yes, sir."
"Quid agis?"
"You’ll see."
"We won!” yelled Ron, bounding into sight and brandishing the silver Cup at Harry. “We won! Four hundred and fifty to a hundred and forty! We won!"
"You’d think people had better things to gossip about,” said Ginny, as she sat on the common room floor, leaning against Harry’s legs and reading the Daily Prophet. “Three dementor attacks in a week, and all Romilda Vane does is ask me if it’s true you’ve got a hippogriff tattooed across your chest."
"What did you tell her?"
"I told her it’s a Hungarian Horntail,” said Ginny, turning a page of the newspaper idly. “Much more macho."
"Thanks,” said Harry, grinning. “And what did you tell her Ron’s got?"
"A Pygmy Puff, but I didn’t say where."
"Watch it,” he said, pointing warningly at Harry and Ginny. “Just because I’ve given my permission doesn’t mean I can’t withdraw it —"
"‘Your permission,’” scoffed Ginny. “Since when did you give me permission to do anything? Anyway, you said yourself you’d rather it was Harry than Michael or Dean."
"Yeah, I would,” said Ron grudgingly. “And just as long as you don’t start snogging each other in public —"
"You filthy hypocrite! What about you and Lavender, thrashing around like a pair of eels all over the place?"
"I want to talk to you, Harry."
"What about?"
"The so-called Half-Blood Prince."
"Oh, not again,” he groaned. “Will you please drop it?"
"I’m not dropping it,” said Hermione firmly, “until you’ve heard me out. Now, I’ve been trying to find out a bit about who might make a hobby of inventing Dark spells —"
"He didn’t make a hobby of it —"
"He, he — who says it’s a he?"
"We’ve been through this,” said Harry crossly. “Prince, Hermione, Prince!"
"Right!” said Hermione, red patches blazing in her cheeks as she pulled a very old piece of newsprint out of her pocket and slammed it down on the table in front of Harry. “Look at that! Look at the picture!"
"So?"
"Her name was Eileen Prince. Prince, Harry."
"No way."
"What?"
"You think she was the Half-Blood . . . ? Oh, come on."
"Well, why not? Harry, there aren’t any real princes in the Wizarding world! It’s either a nickname, a made-up title somebody’s given themselves, or it could be their actual name, couldn’t it? No, listen! If, say, her father was a wizard whose surname was Prince, and her mother was a Muggle, then that would make her a ‘half-blood Prince’!"
"Yeah, very ingenious, Hermione . . ."
"But it would! Maybe she was proud of being half a Prince!"
"Listen, Hermione, I can tell it’s not a girl. I can just tell."
"The truth is that you don’t think a girl would have been clever enough,"
"How can I have hung round with you for five years and not think girls are clever?” said Harry, stung by this. “It’s the way he writes, I just know the Prince was a bloke, I can tell. This girl hasn’t got anything to do with it. Where did you get this anyway?"
"The library,” said Hermione predictably. “There’s a whole collection of old Prophets up there. Well, I’m going to find out more about Eileen Prince if I can."
"Enjoy yourself,"
"I will,” said Hermione. “And the first place I’ll look,” she shot at him, as she reached the portrait hole, “is records of old Potions awards!"
"She’s just never got over you outperforming her in Potions,"
"You don’t think I’m mad, wanting that book back, do you?"
"’Course not,” said Ron robustly. “He was a genius, the Prince. Anyway . . . without his bezoar tip . . .” He drew his finger significantly across his own throat. “I wouldn’t be here to discuss it, would I? I mean, I’m not saying that spell you used on Malfoy was great —"
"Nor am I,"
"But he healed all right, didn’t he? Back on his feet in no time."
"Yeah,” said Harry; this was perfectly true, although his conscience squirmed slightly all the same. “Thanks to Snape . . ."
"You still got detention with Snape this Saturday?"
"Yeah, and the Saturday after that, and the Saturday after that,” sighed Harry. “And he’s hinting now that if I don’t get all the boxes done by the end of term, we’ll carry on next year."
"Thanks, Jimmy . . . Hey, it’s from Dumbledore!” said Harry excitedly, unrolling the parchment and scanning it. “He wants me to go to his office as quick as I can!"
"Blimey,” whispered Ron. “You don’t reckon . . . he hasn’t found . . . ?"
"Better go and see, hadn’t I?"
"How — dare — you — aaaaargh!"
"Professor —"
"What happened, Professor?"
"You may well ask!” she said shrilly. “I was strolling along, brooding upon certain dark portents I happen to have glimpsed . . ."
"Professor, were you trying to get into the Room of Requirement?"
". . . omens I have been vouchsafed — what?"
"The Room of Requirement,” repeated Harry. “Were you trying to get in there?"
"I — well — I didn’t know students knew about —"
"Not all of them do,” said Harry. “But what happened? You screamed. . . . It sounded as though you were hurt. . . ."
"I — well,” said Professor Trelawney, drawing her shawls around her defensively and staring down at him with her vastly magnified eyes. “I wished to — ah — deposit certain — um — personal items in the room. . . .” And she muttered something about “nasty accusations."
"Right,” said Harry, glancing down at the sherry bottles. “But you couldn’t get in and hide them?"
"Oh, I got in all right,” said Professor Trelawney, glaring at the wall. “But there was somebody already in there."
"Somebody in — ? Who?” demanded Harry. “Who was in there?"
"I have no idea,” said Professor Trelawney, looking slightly taken aback at the urgency in Harry’s voice. “I walked into the room and I heard a voice, which has never happened before in all my years of hiding — of using the room, I mean."
"A voice? Saying what?"
"I don’t know that it was saying anything,” said Professor Trelawney. “It was . . . whooping."
"Whooping?"
"Gleefully,"
"Was it male or female?"
"I would hazard a guess at male,"
"And it sounded happy?"
"Very happy,"
"As though it was celebrating?"
"Most definitely."
"And then — ?"
"And then I called out ‘Who’s there?’"
"You couldn’t have found out who it was without asking?"
"The Inner Eye,” said Professor Trelawney with dignity, straightening her shawls and many strands of glittering beads, “was fixed upon matters well outside the mundane realms of whooping voices."
"Right,” said Harry hastily; he had heard about Professor Trelawney’s Inner Eye all too often before. “And did the voice say who was there?"
"No, it did not,” she said. “Everything went pitch-black and the next thing I knew, I was being hurled headfirst out of the room!"
"And you didn’t see that coming?"
"No, I did not, as I say, it was pitch —"
"I think you’d better tell Professor Dumbledore,” said Harry. “He ought to know Malfoy’s celebrating — I mean, that someone threw you out of the room."
"The headmaster has intimated that he would prefer fewer visits from me,” she said coldly. “I am not one to press my company upon those who do not value it. If Dumbledore chooses to ignore the warnings the cards show —” Her bony hand closed suddenly around Harry’s wrist. “Again and again, no matter how I lay them out —” And she pulled a card dramatically from underneath her shawls. “— the lightning-struck tower,” she whispered. “Calamity. Disaster. Coming nearer all the time . . ."
"Right,” said Harry again. “Well . . . I still think you should tell Dumbledore about this voice, and everything going dark and being thrown out of the room. . . ."
"You think so?"
"I’m going to see him right now,” said Harry. “I’ve got a meeting with him. We could go together."
"Oh, well, in that case,"
"I miss having you in my classes, Harry,” she said soulfully as they set off together. “You were never much of a Seer . . . but you were a wonderful Object . . ."
"I am afraid,” she went on, “that the nag — I’m sorry, the centaur — knows nothing of cartomancy. I asked him — one Seer to another — had he not, too, sensed the distant vibrations of coming catastrophe? But he seemed to find me almost comical. Yes, comical!"
"Perhaps the horse has heard people say that I have not inherited my great-great-grandmother’s gift. Those rumors have been bandied about by the jealous for years. You know what I say to such people, Harry? Would Dumbledore have let me teach at this great school, put so much trust in me all these years, had I not proved myself to him?"
"I well remember my first interview with Dumbledore,” went on Professor Trelawney, in throaty tones. “He was deeply impressed, of course, deeply impressed. . . . I was staying at the Hog’s Head, which I do not advise, incidentally — bedbugs, dear boy — but funds were low. Dumbledore did me the courtesy of calling upon me in my room. He questioned me. . . . I must confess that, at first, I thought he seemed ill-disposed toward Divination . . . and I remember I was starting to feel a little odd, I had not eaten much that day . . . but then . . ."
". . . but then we were rudely interrupted by Severus Snape!"
"What?"
"Yes, there was a commotion outside the door and it flew open, and there was that rather uncouth barman standing with Snape, who was waffling about having come the wrong way up the stairs, although I’m afraid that I myself rather thought he had been apprehended eavesdropping on my interview with Dumbledore — you see, he himself was seeking a job at the time, and no doubt hoped to pick up tips! Well, after that, you know, Dumbledore seemed much more disposed to give me a job, and I could not help thinking, Harry, that it was because he appreciated the stark contrast between my own unassuming manners and quiet talent, compared to the pushing, thrusting young man who was prepared to listen at keyholes — Harry, dear?"
"Harry?"
"Harry?” said Professor Trelawney again. “Harry — I thought we were going to see the headmaster together?"
"You stay here,"
"But dear . . . I was going to tell him how I was assaulted in the Room of —"
"You stay here!"
"Enter"
"Well, Harry, I promised that you could come with me."
"Come . . . with you . . . ?"
"Only if you wish it, of course."
"If I . . ."
"You’ve found one? You’ve found a Horcrux?"
"I believe so."
"It is natural to be afraid,"
"I’m not scared!” said Harry at once, and it was perfectly true; fear was one emotion he was not feeling at all. “Which Horcrux is it? Where is it?"
"I am not sure which it is — though I think we can rule out the snake — but I believe it to be hidden in a cave on the coast many miles from here, a cave I have been trying to locate for a very long time: the cave in which Tom Riddle once terrorized two children from his orphanage on their annual trip; you remember?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “How is it protected?"
"I do not know; I have suspicions that may be entirely wrong.” Dumbledore hesitated, then said, “Harry, I promised you that you could come with me, and I stand by that promise, but it would be very wrong of me not to warn you that this will be exceedingly dangerous."
"I’m coming,"
"What has happened to you?"
"Nothing,"
"What has upset you?"
"I’m not upset."
"Harry, you were never a good Occlumens —"
"Snape!” he said, very loudly, and Fawkes gave a soft squawk behind them. “Snape’s what’s happened! He told Voldemort about the prophecy, it was him, he listened outside the door, Trelawney told me!"
"When did you find out about this?"
"Just now!” said Harry, who was refraining from yelling with enormous difficulty. And then, suddenly, he could not stop himself. “AND YOU LET HIM TEACH HERE AND HE TOLD VOLDEMORT TO GO AFTER MY MUM AND DAD!"
"Harry,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Please listen to me."
"Professor Snape made a terrible —"
"Don’t tell me it was a mistake, sir, he was listening at the door!"
"Please let me finish.” Dumbledore waited until Harry had nodded curtly, then went on. “Professor Snape made a terrible mistake. He was still in Lord Voldemort’s employ on the night he heard the first half of Professor Trelawney’s prophecy. Naturally, he hastened to tell his master what he had heard, for it concerned his master most deeply. But he did not know — he had no possible way of knowing — which boy Voldemort would hunt from then onward, or that the parents he would destroy in his murderous quest were people that Professor Snape knew, that they were your mother and father —"
"He hated my dad like he hated Sirius! Haven’t you noticed, Professor, how the people Snape hates tend to end up dead?"
"You have no idea of the remorse Professor Snape felt when he realized how Lord Voldemort had interpreted the prophecy, Harry. I believe it to be the greatest regret of his life and the reason that he returned —"
"But he’s a very good Occlumens, isn’t he, sir?” said Harry, whose voice was shaking with the effort of keeping it steady. “And isn’t Voldemort convinced that Snape’s on his side, even now? Professor . . . how can you be sure Snape’s on our side?"
"I am sure. I trust Severus Snape completely."
"Well, I don’t!” he said, as loudly as before. “He’s up to something with Draco Malfoy right now, right under your nose, and you still —"
"We have discussed this, Harry,” said Dumbledore, and now he sounded stern again. “I have told you my views."
"You’re leaving the school tonight, and I’ll bet you haven’t even considered that Snape and Malfoy might decide to —"
"To what?” asked Dumbledore, his eyebrows raised. “What is it that you suspect them of doing, precisely?"
"I . . . they’re up to something!” said Harry, and his hands curled into fists as he said it. “Professor Trelawney was just in the Room of Requirement, trying to hide her sherry bottles, and she heard Malfoy whooping, celebrating! He’s trying to mend something dangerous in there and if you ask me, he’s fixed it at last and you’re about to just walk out of school without —"
"Enough,” said Dumbledore. He said it quite calmly, and yet Harry fell silent at once; he knew that he had finally crossed some invisible line. “Do you think that I have once left the school unprotected during my absences this year? I have not. Tonight, when I leave, there will again be additional protection in place. Please do not suggest that I do not take the safety of my students seriously, Harry."
"I didn’t —"
"I do not wish to discuss the matter any further."
"Do you wish to come with me tonight?"
"Yes,"
"Very well, then: Listen.” Dumbledore drew himself up to his full height. “I take you with me on one condition: that you obey any command I might give you at once, and without question."
"Of course."
"Be sure to understand me, Harry. I mean that you must follow even such orders as ‘run,’ ‘hide,’ or ‘go back.’ Do I have your word?"
"I — yes, of course."
"If I tell you to hide, you will do so?"
"Yes."
"If I tell you to flee, you will obey?"
"Yes."
"If I tell you to leave me and save yourself, you will do as I tell you?"
"I —"
"Harry?"
"Yes, sir."
"Very good. Then I wish you to go and fetch your Invisibility Cloak and meet me in the entrance hall in five minutes’ time."
"What does he want?” Hermione said at once. “Harry, are you okay?"
"I’m fine,"
"I’ve got to be quick,” Harry panted. “Dumbledore thinks I’m getting my Invisibility Cloak. Listen. . . ."
". . . so you see what this means?” Harry finished at a gallop. “Dumbledore won’t be here tonight, so Malfoy’s going to have another clear shot at whatever he’s up to. No, listen to me!” he hissed angrily, as both Ron and Hermione showed every sign of interrupting. “I know it was Malfoy celebrating in the Room of Requirement. Here —” He shoved the Marauder’s Map into Hermione’s hands. “You’ve got to watch him and you’ve got to watch Snape too. Use anyone else who you can rustle up from the D.A., Hermione, those contact Galleons will still work, right? Dumbledore says he’s put extra protection in the school, but if Snape’s involved, he’ll know what Dumbledore’s protection is, and how to avoid it — but he won’t be expecting you lot to be on the watch, will he?"
"Harry —"
"I haven’t got time to argue,” said Harry curtly. “Take this as well —"
"Thanks,” said Ron. “Er — why do I need socks?"
"You need what’s wrapped in them, it’s the Felix Felicis. Share it between yourselves and Ginny too. Say good-bye to her for me. I’d better go, Dumbledore’s waiting —"
"No!” said Hermione, as Ron unwrapped the tiny little bottle of golden potion, looking awestruck. “We don’t want it, you take it, who knows what you’re going to be facing?"
"I’ll be fine, I’ll be with Dumbledore,” said Harry. “I want to know you lot are okay. . . . Don’t look like that, Hermione, I’ll see you later. . . ."
"I would like you to wear your Cloak, please,” said Dumbledore, and he waited until Harry had thrown it on before saying, “Very good. Shall we go?"
"But what will people think when they see you leaving, Professor?"
"That I am off into Hogsmeade for a drink,” said Dumbledore lightly. “I sometimes offer Rosmerta my custom, or else visit the Hog’s Head . . . or I appear to. It is as good a way as any of disguising one’s true destination."
"Professor,” said Harry quietly, as the gates at the bottom of the drive came into view, “will we be Apparating?"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore. “You can Apparate now, I believe?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “but I haven’t got a license."
"No matter,” said Dumbledore, “I can assist you again."
"— and stay out!” shouted Madam Rosmerta, forcibly ejecting a grubby-looking wizard. “Oh, hello, Albus . . . You’re out late . . ."
"Good evening, Rosmerta, good evening . . . forgive me, I’m off to the Hog’s Head. . . . No offense, but I feel like a quieter atmosphere tonight. . . ."
"It will not be necessary for us to enter,” muttered Dumbledore, glancing around. “As long as nobody sees us go . . . now place your hand upon my arm, Harry. There is no need to grip too hard, I am merely guiding you. On the count of three . . . One . . . two . . . three . . ."
"What do you think?"
"They brought the kids from the orphanage here?"
"Not here, precisely,” said Dumbledore. “There is a village of sorts about halfway along the cliffs behind us. I believe the orphans were taken there for a little sea air and a view of the waves. No, I think it was only ever Tom Riddle and his youthful victims who visited this spot. No Muggle could reach this rock unless they were uncommonly good mountaineers, and boats cannot approach the cliffs, the waters around them are too dangerous. I imagine that Riddle climbed down; magic would have served better than ropes. And he brought two small children with him, probably for the pleasure of terrorizing them. I think the journey alone would have done it, don’t you?"
"But his final destination — and ours — lies a little farther on. Come."
"Lumos,"
"You see?"
"You will not object to getting a little wet?"
"No,"
"Then take off your Invisibility Cloak — there is no need for it now — and let us take the plunge."
"Yes, this is the place,"
"How can you tell?"
"It has known magic,"
"This is merely the antechamber, the entrance hall,” said Dumbledore after a moment or two. “We need to penetrate the inner place. . . . Now it is Lord Voldemort’s obstacles that stand in our way, rather than those nature made. . . ."
"Here,” he said. “We go on through here. The entrance is concealed."
"You’ve d-done it!"
"Harry, I’m so sorry, I forgot,"
"Thank you,” said Harry gratefully, but Dumbledore had already turned his attention back to the solid cave wall. He did not try any more magic, but simply stood there staring at it intently, as though something extremely interesting was written on it. Harry stayed quite still; he did not want to break Dumbledore’s concentration. Then, after two solid minutes, Dumbledore said quietly, “Oh, surely not. So crude."
"What is it, Professor?"
"I rather think,” said Dumbledore, putting his uninjured hand inside his robes and drawing out a short silver knife of the kind Harry used to chop potion ingredients, “that we are required to make payment to pass."
"Payment?” said Harry. “You’ve got to give the door something?"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore. “Blood, if I am not much mistaken."
"Blood?"
"I said it was crude,” said Dumbledore, who sounded disdainful, even disappointed, as though Voldemort had fallen short of the standards Dumbledore expected. “The idea, as I am sure you will have gathered, is that your enemy must weaken him- or herself to enter. Once again, Lord Voldemort fails to grasp that there are much more terrible things than physical injury."
"Yeah, but still, if you can avoid it . . ."
"Sometimes, however, it is unavoidable,"
"Professor!” protested Harry, hurrying forward as Dumbledore raised his knife. “I’ll do it, I’m —"
"You are very kind, Harry,” said Dumbledore, now passing the tip of his wand over the deep cut he had made in his own arm, so that it healed instantly, just as Snape had healed Malfoy’s wounds. “But your blood is worth more than mine. Ah, that seems to have done the trick, doesn’t it?"
"After me, I think,"
"Let us walk,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Be very careful not to step into the water. Stay close to me."
"Professor?” he said finally. “Do you think the Horcrux is here?"
"Oh yes,” said Dumbledore. “Yes, I’m sure it is. The question is, how do we get to it?"
"We couldn’t . . . we couldn’t just try a Summoning Charm?"
"Certainly we could,” said Dumbledore, stopping so suddenly that Harry almost walked into him. “Why don’t you do it?"
"Me? Oh . . . okay . . ."
"Accio Horcrux!"
"What was that?"
"Something, I think, that is ready to respond should we attempt to seize the Horcrux."
"Did you think that would happen, sir?"
"I thought something would happen if we made an obvious attempt to get our hands on the Horcrux. That was a very good idea, Harry; much the simplest way of finding out what we are facing."
"But we don’t know what the thing was,"
"What the things are, you mean,” said Dumbledore. “I doubt very much that there is only one of them. Shall we walk on?"
"Professor?"
"Yes, Harry?"
"Do you think we’re going to have to go into the lake?"
"Into it? Only if we are very unfortunate."
"You don’t think the Horcrux is at the bottom?"
"Oh no . . . I think the Horcrux is in the middle."
"So we’re going to have to cross the lake to get to it?"
"Yes, I think so."
"Aha,” said Dumbledore, and he stopped again; this time, Harry really did walk into him; for a moment he toppled on the edge of the dark water, and Dumbledore’s uninjured hand closed tightly around his upper arm, pulling him back. “So sorry, Harry, I should have given warning. Stand back against the wall, please; I think I have found the place."
"Oho,"
"How did you know that was there?"
"Magic always leaves traces,” said Dumbledore, as the boat hit the bank with a gentle bump, “sometimes very distinctive traces. I taught Tom Riddle. I know his style."
"Is . . . is this boat safe?"
"Oh yes, I think so. Voldemort needed to create a means to cross the lake without attracting the wrath of those creatures he had placed within it in case he ever wanted to visit or remove his Horcrux."
"So the things in the water won’t do anything to us if we cross in Voldemort’s boat?"
"I think we must resign ourselves to the fact that they will, at some point, realize we are not Lord Voldemort. Thus far, however, we have done well. They have allowed us to raise the boat."
"But why have they let us?"
"Voldemort would have been reasonably confident that none but a very great wizard would have been able to find the boat,” said Dumbledore. “I think he would have been prepared to risk what was, to his mind, the most unlikely possibility that somebody else would find it, knowing that he had set other obstacles ahead that only he would be able to penetrate. We shall see whether he is right."
"It doesn’t look like it was built for two people. Will it hold both of us? Will we be too heavy together?"
"Voldemort will not have cared about the weight, but about the amount of magical power that crossed his lake. I rather think an enchantment will have been placed upon this boat so that only one wizard at a time will be able to sail in it."
"But then — ?"
"I do not think you will count, Harry: You are underage and unqualified. Voldemort would never have expected a sixteen-year-old to reach this place: I think it unlikely that your powers will register compared to mine."
"Voldemort’s mistake, Harry, Voldemort’s mistake . . . Age is foolish and forgetful when it underestimates youth. . . . Now, you first this time, and be careful not to touch the water."
"Professor!"
"Harry?"
"I think I saw a hand in the water — a human hand!"
"Yes, I am sure you did,"
"So that thing that jumped out of the water — ?"
"There are bodies in here!"
"Yes,” said Dumbledore placidly, “but we do not need to worry about them at the moment."
"At the moment?"
"Not while they are merely drifting peacefully below us,” said Dumbledore. “There is nothing to be feared from a body, Harry, any more than there is anything to be feared from the darkness. Lord Voldemort, who of course secretly fears both, disagrees. But once again he reveals his own lack of wisdom. It is the unknown we fear when we look upon death and darkness, nothing more."
"But one of them jumped,” he said, trying to make his voice as level and calm as Dumbledore’s. “When I tried to Summon the Horcrux, a body leapt out of the lake."
"Yes,” said Dumbledore. “I am sure that once we take the Horcrux, we shall find them less peaceable. However, like many creatures that dwell in cold and darkness, they fear light and warmth, which we shall therefore call to our aid should the need arise. Fire, Harry,"
"Oh . . . right . . ."
"Nearly there,"
"Careful not to touch the water,"
"What is it?"
"I am not sure,” said Dumbledore. “Something more worrisome than blood and bodies, however."
"Sir, no, don’t touch — !"
"I cannot touch,” said Dumbledore, smiling faintly. “See? I cannot approach any nearer than this. You try."
"Out of the way, please, Harry,"
"You think the Horcrux is in there, sir?"
"Oh yes.” Dumbledore peered more closely into the basin. Harry saw his face reflected, upside down, in the smooth surface of the green potion. “But how to reach it? This potion cannot be penetrated by hand, Vanished, parted, scooped up, or siphoned away, nor can it be Transfigured, Charmed, or otherwise made to change its nature."
"I can only conclude that this potion is supposed to be drunk."
"What?” said Harry. “No!"
"Yes, I think so: Only by drinking it can I empty the basin and see what lies in its depths."
"But what if — what if it kills you?"
"Oh, I doubt that it would work like that,” said Dumbledore easily. “Lord Voldemort would not want to kill the person who reached this island."
"Sir,” said Harry, trying to keep his voice reasonable, “sir, this is Voldemort we’re —"
"I’m sorry, Harry; I should have said, he would not want to immediately kill the person who reached this island,” Dumbledore corrected himself. “He would want to keep them alive long enough to find out how they managed to penetrate so far through his defenses and, most importantly of all, why they were so intent upon emptying the basin. Do not forget that Lord Voldemort believes that he alone knows about his Horcruxes."
"Undoubtedly,” he said, finally, “this potion must act in a way that will prevent me taking the Horcrux. It might paralyze me, cause me to forget what I am here for, create so much pain I am distracted, or render me incapable in some other way. This being the case, Harry, it will be your job to make sure I keep drinking, even if you have to tip the potion into my protesting mouth. You understand?"
"You remember,” said Dumbledore, “the condition on which I brought you with me?"
"But what if — ?"
"You swore, did you not, to follow any command I gave you?"
"Yes, but —"
"I warned you, did I not, that there might be danger?"
"Yes,” said Harry, “but —"
"Well, then,” said Dumbledore, shaking back his sleeves once more and raising the empty goblet, “you have my orders."
"Why can’t I drink the potion instead?"
"Because I am much older, much cleverer, and much less valuable,” said Dumbledore. “Once and for all, Harry, do I have your word that you will do all in your power to make me keep drinking?"
"Couldn’t — ?"
"Do I have it?"
"But —"
"Your word, Harry."
"I — all right, but —"
"Your good health, Harry."
"Professor?” he said anxiously, as Dumbledore lowered the empty glass. “How do you feel?"
"Professor Dumbledore?” said Harry, his voice strained. “Can you hear me?"
"Professor, can you hear me?"
"I don’t want . . . Don’t make me . . ."
". . . don’t like . . . want to stop . . ."
"You . . . you can’t stop, Professor,” said Harry. “You’ve got to keep drinking, remember? You told me you had to keep drinking. Here . . ."
"No . . .” he groaned, as Harry lowered the goblet back into the basin and refilled it for him. “I don’t want to. . . . I don’t want to. . . . Let me go. . . ."
"It’s all right, Professor,” said Harry, his hand shaking. “It’s all right, I’m here —"
"Make it stop, make it stop,"
"Yes . . . yes, this’ll make it stop,"
"No, no, no, no, I can’t, I can’t, don’t make me, I don’t want to. . . ."
"It’s all right, Professor, it’s all right!” said Harry loudly, his hands shaking so badly he could hardly scoop up the sixth gobletful of potion; the basin was now half empty. “Nothing’s happening to you, you’re safe, it isn’t real, I swear it isn’t real — take this, now, take this. . . ."
"It’s all my fault, all my fault,” he sobbed. “Please make it stop, I know I did wrong, oh please make it stop and I’ll never, never again . . ."
"This will make it stop, Professor,"
"Don’t hurt them, don’t hurt them, please, please, it’s my fault, hurt me instead . . ."
"Here, drink this, drink this, you’ll be all right,"
"Please, please, please, no . . . not that, not that, I’ll do anything . . ."
"Just drink, Professor, just drink . . ."
"No more, please, no more . . ."
"We’re nearly there, Professor. Drink this, drink it. . . ."
"I want to die! I want to die! Make it stop, make it stop, I want to die!"
"Drink this, Professor. Drink this. . . ."
"KILL ME!"
"This — this one will!” gasped Harry. “Just drink this . . . It’ll be over . . . all over!"
"No!” shouted Harry, who had stood to refill the goblet again; instead he dropped the cup into the basin, flung himself down beside Dumbledore, and heaved him over onto his back; Dumbledore’s glasses were askew, his mouth agape, his eyes closed. “No,” said Harry, shaking Dumbledore, “no, you’re not dead, you said it wasn’t poison, wake up, wake up — Rennervate!” he cried, his wand pointing at Dumbledore’s chest; there was a flash of red light but nothing happened. “Rennervate — sir — please —"
"Sir, are you — ?"
"Water,"
"Water,” panted Harry. “Yes —"
"Aguamenti!"
"But I had some — wait — Aguamenti!"
"Sir, I’m trying, I’m trying!” said Harry desperately, but he did not think that Dumbledore could hear him; he had rolled onto his side and was drawing great, rattling breaths that sounded agonizing. “Aguamenti — Aguamenti — AGUAMENTI!"
"Sir — here!"
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"Petrificus Totalus!” Harry bellowed again, backing away as he swiped his wand through the air; six or seven of them crumpled, but more were coming toward him. “Impedimenta! Incarcerous!"
"Sectumsempra! SECTUMSEMPRA!"
"Sir,” panted Harry, “sir, I forgot — about fire — they were coming at me and I panicked —"
"Quite understandable,"
"I am weak. . . ."
"Don’t worry, sir,” said Harry at once, anxious about Dumbledore’s extreme pallor and by his air of exhaustion. “Don’t worry, I’ll get us back. . . . Lean on me, sir. . . ."
"The protection was . . . after all . . . well-designed,” said Dumbledore faintly. “One alone could not have done it. . . . You did well, very well, Harry. . . ."
"Don’t talk now,” said Harry, fearing how slurred Dumbledore’s voice had become, how much his feet dragged. “Save your energy, sir. . . . We’ll soon be out of here. . . ."
"The archway will have sealed again. . . . My knife . . ."
"There’s no need, I got cut on the rock,” said Harry firmly. “Just tell me where. . . ."
"Here . . ."
"It’s going to be all right, sir,” Harry said over and over again, more worried by Dumbledore’s silence than he had been by his weakened voice. “We’re nearly there. . . . I can Apparate us both back. . . . Don’t worry. . . ."
"I am not worried, Harry,” said Dumbledore, his voice a little stronger despite the freezing water. “I am with you."
"We did it, Professor!” Harry whispered with difficulty; he suddenly realized that he had a searing stitch in his chest. “We did it! We got the Horcrux!"
"Sir, are you all right?"
"I’ve been better,” said Dumbledore weakly, though the corners of his mouth twitched. “That potion . . . was no health drink. . . ."
"Sir — it’s okay, sir, you’re going to be all right, don’t worry —"
"We need to get you up to the school, sir. . . . Madam Pomfrey . . ."
"No,” said Dumbledore. “It is . . . Professor Snape whom I need. . . . But I do not think . . . I can walk very far just yet. . . ."
"Right — sir, listen — I’m going to knock on a door, find a place you can stay — then I can run and get Madam —"
"Severus,” said Dumbledore clearly. “I need Severus. . . ."
"All right then, Snape — but I’m going to have to leave you for a moment so I can —"
"I saw you Apparate as I was pulling my bedroom curtains! Thank goodness, thank goodness, I couldn’t think what to — but what’s wrong with Albus?"
"He’s hurt,” said Harry. “Madam Rosmerta, can he come into the Three Broomsticks while I go up to the school and get help for him?"
"You can’t go up there alone! Don’t you realize — haven’t you seen — ?"
"If you help me support him,” said Harry, not listening to her, “I think we can get him inside —"
"What has happened?” asked Dumbledore. “Rosmerta, what’s wrong?"
"The — the Dark Mark, Albus."
"When did it appear?"
"Must have been minutes ago, it wasn’t there when I put the cat out, but when I got upstairs —"
"We need to return to the castle at once,” said Dumbledore. “Rosmerta” — and though he staggered a little, he seemed wholly in command of the situation — “we need transport — brooms —"
"I’ve got a couple behind the bar,” she said, looking very frightened. “Shall I run and fetch — ?"
"No, Harry can do it."
"Accio Rosmerta’s Brooms!"
"Rosmerta, please send a message to the Ministry,” said Dumbledore, as he mounted the broom nearest him. “It might be that nobody within Hogwarts has yet realized anything is wrong. . . . Harry, put on your Invisibility Cloak."
"What does it mean?” Harry asked Dumbledore, looking up at the green skull with its serpent’s tongue glinting evilly above them. “Is it the real Mark? Has someone definitely been — Professor?"
"Go and wake Severus,” said Dumbledore faintly but clearly. “Tell him what has happened and bring him to me. Do nothing else, speak to nobody else, and do not remove your Cloak. I shall wait here."
"But —"
"You swore to obey me, Harry — go!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Good evening, Draco."
"Who else is here?"
"A question I might ask you. Or are you acting alone?"
"No,” he said. “I’ve got backup. There are Death Eaters here in your school tonight."
"Well, well,” said Dumbledore, as though Malfoy was showing him an ambitious homework project. “Very good indeed. You found a way to let them in, did you?"
"Yeah,” said Malfoy, who was panting. “Right under your nose and you never realized!"
"Ingenious,” said Dumbledore. “Yet . . . forgive me . . . where are they now? You seem unsupported."
"They met some of your guards. They’re having a fight down below. They won’t be long. . . . I came on ahead. I — I’ve got a job to do."
"Well, then, you must get on and do it, my dear boy,"
"Draco, Draco, you are not a killer."
"How do you know?"
"You don’t know what I’m capable of,” said Malfoy more forcefully. “You don’t know what I’ve done!"
"Oh yes, I do,” said Dumbledore mildly. “You almost killed Katie Bell and Ronald Weasley. You have been trying, with increasing desperation, to kill me all year. Forgive me, Draco, but they have been feeble attempts. . . . So feeble, to be honest, that I wonder whether your heart has been really in it."
"It has been in it!” said Malfoy vehemently. “I’ve been working on it all year, and tonight —"
"Somebody is putting up a good fight,” said Dumbledore conversationally. “But you were saying . . . yes, you have managed to introduce Death Eaters into my school, which, I admit, I thought impossible. . . . How did you do it?"
"Perhaps you ought to get on with the job alone,” suggested Dumbledore. “What if your backup has been thwarted by my guard? As you have perhaps realized, there are members of the Order of the Phoenix here tonight too. And after all, you don’t really need help. . . . I have no wand at the moment. . . . I cannot defend myself."
"I see,” said Dumbledore kindly, when Malfoy neither moved nor spoke. “You are afraid to act until they join you."
"I’m not afraid!” snarled Malfoy, though he still made no move to hurt Dumbledore. “It’s you who should be scared!"
"But why? I don’t think you will kill me, Draco. Killing is not nearly as easy as the innocent believe. . . . So tell me, while we wait for your friends . . . how did you smuggle them in here? It seems to have taken you a long time to work out how to do it."
"I had to mend that broken Vanishing Cabinet that no one’s used for years. The one Montague got lost in last year."
"Aaaah.” Dumbledore’s sigh was half a groan. He closed his eyes for a moment. “That was clever. . . . There is a pair, I take it?"
"In Borgin and Burkes,” said Malfoy, “and they make a kind of passage between them. Montague told me that when he was stuck in the Hogwarts one, he was trapped in limbo but sometimes he could hear what was going on at school, and sometimes what was going on in the shop, as if the cabinet was traveling between them, but he couldn’t make anyone hear him. . . . In the end, he managed to Apparate out, even though he’d never passed his test. He nearly died doing it. Everyone thought it was a really good story, but I was the only one who realized what it meant — even Borgin didn’t know — I was the one who realized there could be a way into Hogwarts through the cabinets if I fixed the broken one."
"Very good,” murmured Dumbledore. “So the Death Eaters were able to pass from Borgin and Burkes into the school to help you. . . . A clever plan, a very clever plan . . . and, as you say, right under my nose."
"Yeah,” said Malfoy, who bizarrely seemed to draw courage and comfort from Dumbledore’s praise. “Yeah, it was!"
"But there were times,” Dumbledore went on, “weren’t there, when you were not sure you would succeed in mending the cabinet? And you resorted to crude and badly judged measures such as sending me a cursed necklace that was bound to reach the wrong hands . . . poisoning mead there was only the slightest chance I might drink. . . ."
"Yeah, well, you still didn’t realize who was behind that stuff, did you?"
"As a matter of fact, I did,” said Dumbledore. “I was sure it was you."
"Why didn’t you stop me, then?"
"I tried, Draco. Professor Snape has been keeping watch over you on my orders —"
"He hasn’t been doing your orders, he promised my mother —"
"Of course that is what he would tell you, Draco, but —"
"He’s a double agent, you stupid old man, he isn’t working for you, you just think he is!"
"We must agree to differ on that, Draco. It so happens that I trust Professor Snape —"
"Well, you’re losing your grip, then!” sneered Malfoy. “He’s been offering me plenty of help — wanting all the glory for himself — wanting a bit of the action — ‘What are you doing?’ ‘Did you do the necklace, that was stupid, it could have blown everything —’ But I haven’t told him what I’ve been doing in the Room of Requirement, he’s going to wake up tomorrow and it’ll all be over and he won’t be the Dark Lord’s favorite anymore, he’ll be nothing compared to me, nothing!"
"Very gratifying,” said Dumbledore mildly. “We all like appreciation for our own hard work, of course. But you must have had an accomplice, all the same . . . someone in Hogsmeade, someone who was able to slip Katie the — the — aaaah . . ."
". . . of course . . . Rosmerta. How long has she been under the Imperius Curse?"
"Got there at last, have you?"
"So poor Rosmerta was forced to lurk in her own bathroom and pass that necklace to any Hogwarts student who entered the room unaccompanied? And the poisoned mead . . . well, naturally, Rosmerta was able to poison it for you before she sent the bottle to Slughorn, believing that it was to be my Christmas present. . . . Yes, very neat . . . very neat . . . Poor Mr. Filch would not, of course, think to check a bottle of Rosmerta’s. Tell me, how have you been communicating with Rosmerta? I thought we had all methods of communication in and out of the school monitored."
"Enchanted coins,” said Malfoy, as though he was compelled to keep talking, though his wand hand was shaking badly. “I had one and she had the other and I could send her messages —"
"Isn’t that the secret method of communication the group that called themselves Dumbledore’s Army used last year?"
"Yeah, I got the idea from them,” said Malfoy, with a twisted smile. “I got the idea of poisoning the mead from the Mudblood Granger as well, I heard her talking in the library about Filch not recognizing potions."
"Please do not use that offensive word in front of me,"
"You care about me saying ‘Mudblood’ when I’m about to kill you?"
"Yes, I do,” said Dumbledore, and Harry saw his feet slide a little on the floor as he struggled to remain upright. “But as for being about to kill me, Draco, you have had several long minutes now, we are quite alone, I am more defenseless than you can have dreamed of finding me, and still you have not acted. . . ."
"Now, about tonight,” Dumbledore went on, “I am a little puzzled about how it happened. . . . You knew that I had left the school? But of course,” he answered his own question, “Rosmerta saw me leaving, she tipped you off using your ingenious coins, I’m sure."
"That’s right,” said Malfoy. “But she said you were just going for a drink, you’d be back. . . ."
"Well, I certainly did have a drink . . . and I came back . . . after a fashion,” mumbled Dumbledore. “So you decided to spring a trap for me?"
"We decided to put the Dark Mark over the tower and get you to hurry up here, to see who’d been killed,” said Malfoy. “And it worked!"
"Well . . . yes and no . . .” said Dumbledore. “But am I to take it, then, that nobody has been murdered?"
"Someone’s dead,” said Malfoy, and his voice seemed to go up an octave as he said it. “One of your people . . . I don’t know who, it was dark. . . . I stepped over the body. . . . I was supposed to be waiting up here when you got back, only your Phoenix lot got in the way. . . ."
"Yes, they do that,"
"There is little time, one way or another,” said Dumbledore. “So let us discuss your options, Draco."
"My options!” said Malfoy loudly. “I’m standing here with a wand — I’m about to kill you —"
"My dear boy, let us have no more pretense about that. If you were going to kill me, you would have done it when you first disarmed me, you would not have stopped for this pleasant chat about ways and means."
"I haven’t got any options!” said Malfoy, and he was suddenly white as Dumbledore. “I’ve got to do it! He’ll kill me! He’ll kill my whole family!"
"I appreciate the difficulty of your position,” said Dumbledore. “Why else do you think I have not confronted you before now? Because I knew that you would have been murdered if Lord Voldemort realized that I suspected you."
"I did not dare speak to you of the mission with which I knew you had been entrusted, in case he used Legilimency against you,” continued Dumbledore. “But now at last we can speak plainly to each other. . . . No harm has been done, you have hurt nobody, though you are very lucky that your unintentional victims survived. . . . I can help you, Draco."
"No, you can’t,” said Malfoy, his wand hand shaking very badly indeed. “Nobody can. He told me to do it or he’ll kill me. I’ve got no choice."
"Come over to the right side, Draco, and we can hide you more completely than you can possibly imagine. What is more, I can send members of the Order to your mother tonight to hide her likewise. Your father is safe at the moment in Azkaban. . . . When the time comes, we can protect him too. . . . Come over to the right side, Draco . . . you are not a killer. . . ."
"But I got this far, didn’t I?” he said slowly. “They thought I’d die in the attempt, but I’m here . . . and you’re in my power. . . . I’m the one with the wand. . . . You’re at my mercy. . . ."
"No, Draco,” said Dumbledore quietly. “It is my mercy, and not yours, that matters now."
"Dumbledore cornered!” he said, and he turned to a stocky little woman who looked as though she could be his sister and who was grinning eagerly. “Dumbledore wandless, Dumbledore alone! Well done, Draco, well done!"
"Good evening, Amycus,” said Dumbledore calmly, as though welcoming the man to a tea party. “And you’ve brought Alecto too. . . . Charming . . ."
"Think your little jokes’ll help you on your deathbed then?"
"Jokes? No, no, these are manners,"
"Do it,"
"Is that you, Fenrir?"
"That’s right,” rasped the other. “Pleased to see me, Dumbledore?"
"No, I cannot say that I am."
"But you know how much I like kids, Dumbledore."
"Am I to take it that you are attacking even without the full moon now? This is most unusual. . . . You have developed a taste for human flesh that cannot be satisfied once a month?"
"That’s right,” said Fenrir Greyback. “Shocks you that, does it, Dumbledore? Frightens you?"
"Well, I cannot pretend it does not disgust me a little,” said Dumbledore. “And, yes, I am a little shocked that Draco here invited you, of all people, into the school where his friends live. . . ."
"I didn’t,” breathed Malfoy. He was not looking at Fenrir; he did not seem to want to even glance at him. “I didn’t know he was going to come —"
"I wouldn’t want to miss a trip to Hogwarts, Dumbledore,” rasped Greyback. “Not when there are throats to be ripped out . . . Delicious, delicious . . ."
"I could do you for afters, Dumbledore."
"No,” said the fourth Death Eater sharply. He had a heavy, brutal-looking face. “We’ve got orders. Draco’s got to do it. Now, Draco, and quickly."
"He’s not long for this world anyway, if you ask me!” said the lopsided man, to the accompaniment of his sister’s wheezing giggles. “Look at him — what’s happened to you, then, Dumby?"
"Oh, weaker resistance, slower reflexes, Amycus,” said Dumbledore. “Old age, in short . . . One day, perhaps, it will happen to you . . . if you are lucky. . . ."
"What’s that mean, then, what’s that mean?” yelled the Death Eater, suddenly violent. “Always the same, weren’t yeh, Dumby, talking and doing nothing, nothing. I don’t even know why the Dark Lord’s bothering to kill yer! Come on, Draco, do it!"
"They’ve blocked the stairs — Reducto! REDUCTO!"
"Now, Draco, quickly!"
"I’ll do it,"
"I said no!"
"Draco, do it or stand aside so one of us —"
"We’ve got a problem, Snape,” said the lumpy Amycus, whose eyes and wand were fixed alike upon Dumbledore, “the boy doesn’t seem able —"
"Severus . . ."
"Severus . . . please . . ."
"Avada Kedavra!"
"Out of here, quickly,"
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"It’s over, time to go!"
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"Crucio — Crucio — you can’t dance forever, pretty —"
"Impedimenta!"
"Harry, where did you come from?"
"Take that!"
"Neville, are you — ?"
"M’all right,” muttered Neville, who was clutching his stomach, “Harry . . . Snape ’n’ Malfoy . . . ran past . . ."
"I know, I’m on it!"
"Harry! We heard a noise, and someone said something about the Dark Mark —"
"Out of the way!"
"Impedimenta!"
"Stupefy!"
"Run, Draco!"
"Cruc —"
"Incendio!"
"Fang’s in there, yer evil — !"
"Cruc —"
"No Unforgivable Curses from you, Potter!” he shouted over the rushing of the flames, Hagrid’s yells, and the wild yelping of the trapped Fang. “You haven’t got the nerve or the ability —"
"Incarc —"
"Fight back!” Harry screamed at him. “Fight back, you cowardly —"
"Coward, did you call me, Potter?” shouted Snape. “Your father would never attack me unless it was four on one, what would you call him, I wonder?"
"Stupe —"
"Blocked again and again and again until you learn to keep your mouth shut and your mind closed, Potter!” sneered Snape, deflecting the curse once more. “Now come!” he shouted at the huge Death Eater behind Harry. “It is time to be gone, before the Ministry turns up —"
"Impedi —"
"No!” roared Snape’s voice and the pain stopped as suddenly as it had started; Harry lay curled on the dark grass, clutching his wand and panting; somewhere overhead Snape was shouting, “Have you forgotten our orders? Potter belongs to the Dark Lord — we are to leave him! Go! Go!"
"Sectum — !"
"No, Potter!"
"You dare use my own spells against me, Potter? It was I who invented them — I, the Half-Blood Prince! And you’d turn my inventions on me, like your filthy father, would you? I don’t think so . . . no!"
"Kill me then,” panted Harry, who felt no fear at all, but only rage and contempt. “Kill me like you killed him, you coward —"
"DON’T —” screamed Snape, and his face was suddenly demented, inhuman, as though he was in as much pain as the yelping, howling dog stuck in the burning house behind them — “CALL ME COWARD!"
"Hagrid,” muttered Harry, still dazed, looking around. “HAGRID?"
"Yeh all righ’, Harry? Yeh all righ’? Speak ter me, Harry. . . ."
"I’m all right,” panted Harry. “Are you?"
"’Course I am . . . take more’n that ter finish me."
"We should put out your house,” said Harry, “the charm’s ‘Aguamenti’ . . ."
"Knew it was summat like that,” mumbled Hagrid, and he raised a smoldering pink, flowery umbrella and said, “Aguamenti!"
"Aguamenti"
"S’not too bad,” said Hagrid hopefully a few minutes later, looking at the smoking wreck. “Nothin’ Dumbledore won’ be able to put righ’ . . ."
"Hagrid . . ."
"I was bindin’ up a couple o’ bowtruckle legs when I heard ’em comin’,” said Hagrid sadly, still staring at his wrecked cabin. “They’ll’ve bin burnt ter twigs, poor little things. . . ."
"Hagrid . . ."
"But what happened, Harry? I jus’ saw them Death Eaters runnin’ down from the castle, but what the ruddy hell was Snape doin’ with ’em? Where’s he gone — was he chasin’ them?"
"He . . .” Harry cleared his throat; it was dry from panic and the smoke. “Hagrid, he killed . . ."
"Killed?” said Hagrid loudly, staring down at Harry. “Snape killed? What’re yeh on abou’, Harry?"
"Dumbledore,” said Harry. “Snape killed . . . Dumbledore."
"Dumbledore wha’, Harry?"
"He’s dead. Snape killed him. . . ."
"Don’ say that,” said Hagrid roughly. “Snape kill Dumbledore — don’ be stupid, Harry. Wha’s made yeh say tha’?"
"I saw it happen."
"Yeh couldn’ have."
"I saw it, Hagrid."
"What musta happened was, Dumbledore musta told Snape ter go with them Death Eaters,” Hagrid said confidently. “I suppose he’s gotta keep his cover. Look, let’s get yeh back up ter the school. Come on, Harry. . . ."
"What’re they all lookin’ at?” said Hagrid, as he and Harry approached the castle front, Fang keeping as close as he could to their ankles. “Wha’s tha’, lyin’ on the grass?” Hagrid added sharply, heading now toward the foot of the Astronomy Tower, where a small crowd was congregating. “See it, Harry? Righ’ at the foot o’ the tower? Under where the Mark . . . Blimey . . . yeh don’ think someone got thrown — ?"
"No."
"Yeh can’ stay here, Harry. . . . Come on, now. . . ."
"No."
"Harry, come on."
"We’re going to the hospital wing,"
"I’m not hurt,"
"It’s McGonagall’s orders,” said Ginny. “Everyone’s up there, Ron and Hermione and Lupin and everyone —"
"Ginny, who else is dead?"
"Don’t worry, none of us."
"But the Dark Mark — Malfoy said he stepped over a body —"
"He stepped over Bill, but it’s all right, he’s alive."
"Are you sure?"
"Of course I’m sure . . . he’s a — a bit of a mess, that’s all. Greyback attacked him. Madam Pomfrey says he won’t — won’t look the same anymore. . . ."
"We don’t really know what the aftereffects will be — I mean, Greyback being a werewolf, but not transformed at the time."
"But the others . . . There were other bodies on the ground. . . ."
"Neville and Professor Flitwick are both hurt, but Madam Pomfrey says they’ll be all right. And a Death Eater’s dead, he got hit by a Killing Curse that huge blond one was firing off everywhere — Harry, if we hadn’t had your Felix potion, I think we’d all have been killed, but everything seemed to just miss us —"
"Are you all right, Harry?"
"I’m fine. . . . How’s Bill?"
"Can’t you fix them with a charm or something?"
"No charm will work on these,” said Madam Pomfrey. “I’ve tried everything I know, but there is no cure for werewolf bites."
"But he wasn’t bitten at the full moon,” said Ron, who was gazing down into his brother’s face as though he could somehow force him to mend just by staring. “Greyback hadn’t transformed, so surely Bill won’t be a — a real — ?"
"No, I don’t think that Bill will be a true werewolf,” said Lupin, “but that does not mean that there won’t be some contamination. Those are cursed wounds. They are unlikely ever to heal fully, and — and Bill might have some wolfish characteristics from now on."
"Dumbledore might know something that’d work, though,” Ron said. “Where is he? Bill fought those maniacs on Dumbledore’s orders, Dumbledore owes him, he can’t leave him in this state —"
"Ron — Dumbledore’s dead,"
"No!"
"How did he die?” whispered Tonks. “How did it happen?"
"Snape killed him,” said Harry. “I was there, I saw it. We arrived back on the Astronomy Tower because that’s where the Mark was. . . . Dumbledore was ill, he was weak, but I think he realized it was a trap when we heard footsteps running up the stairs. He immobilized me, I couldn’t do anything, I was under the Invisibility Cloak — and then Malfoy came through the door and disarmed him —"
"— more Death Eaters arrived — and then Snape — and Snape did it. The Avada Kedavra."
"Shh! Listen!"
"Molly and Arthur are on their way,” she said, and the spell of the music was broken: Everyone roused themselves as though coming out of trances, turning again to look at Bill, or else to rub their own eyes, shake their heads. “Harry, what happened? According to Hagrid you were with Professor Dumbledore when he — when it happened. He says Professor Snape was involved in some —"
"Snape killed Dumbledore,"
"Snape,” repeated McGonagall faintly, falling into the chair. “We all wondered . . . but he trusted . . . always . . . Snape . . . I can’t believe it. . . ."
"Snape was a highly accomplished Occlumens,” said Lupin, his voice uncharacteristically harsh. “We always knew that."
"But Dumbledore swore he was on our side!” whispered Tonks. “I always thought Dumbledore must know something about Snape that we didn’t. . . ."
"He always hinted that he had an ironclad reason for trusting Snape,” muttered Professor McGonagall, now dabbing at the corners of her leaking eyes with a tartan-edged handkerchief. “I mean . . . with Snape’s history . . . of course people were bound to wonder . . . but Dumbledore told me explicitly that Snape’s repentance was absolutely genuine. . . . Wouldn’t hear a word against him!"
"I’d love to know what Snape told him to convince him,"
"I know,” said Harry, and they all turned to look at him. “Snape passed Voldemort the information that made Voldemort hunt down my mum and dad. Then Snape told Dumbledore he hadn’t realized what he was doing, he was really sorry he’d done it, sorry that they were dead."
"And Dumbledore believed that?” said Lupin incredulously. “Dumbledore believed Snape was sorry James was dead? Snape hated James. . . ."
"And he didn’t think my mother was worth a damn either,” said Harry, “because she was Muggle-born. . . . ‘Mudblood,’ he called her. . . ."
"This is all my fault,” said Professor McGonagall suddenly. She looked disoriented, twisting her wet handkerchief in her hands. “My fault. I sent Filius to fetch Snape tonight, I actually sent for him to come and help us! If I hadn’t alerted Snape to what was going on, he might never have joined forces with the Death Eaters. I don’t think he knew they were there before Filius told him, I don’t think he knew they were coming."
"It isn’t your fault, Minerva,” said Lupin firmly. “We all wanted more help, we were glad to think Snape was on his way. . . ."
"So when he arrived at the fight, he joined in on the Death Eaters’ side?"
"I don’t know exactly how it happened,” said Professor McGonagall distractedly. “It’s all so confusing. . . . Dumbledore had told us that he would be leaving the school for a few hours and that we were to patrol the corridors just in case . . . Remus, Bill, and Nymphadora were to join us . . . and so we patrolled. All seemed quiet. Every secret passageway out of the school was covered. We knew nobody could fly in. There were powerful enchantments on every entrance into the castle. I still don’t know how the Death Eaters can possibly have entered. . . ."
"I do,” said Harry, and he explained, briefly, about the pair of Vanishing Cabinets and the magical pathway they formed. “So they got in through the Room of Requirement."
"I messed up, Harry,” said Ron bleakly. “We did like you told us: We checked the Marauder’s Map and we couldn’t see Malfoy on it, so we thought he must be in the Room of Requirement, so me, Ginny, and Neville went to keep watch on it . . . but Malfoy got past us."
"He came out of the room about an hour after we started keeping watch,” said Ginny. “He was on his own, clutching that awful shriveled arm —"
"His Hand of Glory,” said Ron. “Gives light only to the holder, remember?"
"Anyway,” Ginny went on, “he must have been checking whether the coast was clear to let the Death Eaters out, because the moment he saw us he threw something into the air and it all went pitch-black —"
"— Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder,” said Ron bitterly. “Fred and George’s. I’m going to be having a word with them about who they let buy their products."
"We tried everything, Lumos, Incendio,” said Ginny. “Nothing would penetrate the darkness; all we could do was grope our way out of the corridor again, and meanwhile we could hear people rushing past us. Obviously Malfoy could see because of that hand thing and was guiding them, but we didn’t dare use any curses or anything in case we hit each other, and by the time we’d reached a corridor that was light, they’d gone."
"Luckily,” said Lupin hoarsely, “Ron, Ginny, and Neville ran into us almost immediately and told us what had happened. We found the Death Eaters minutes later, heading in the direction of the Astronomy Tower. Malfoy obviously hadn’t expected more people to be on the watch; he seemed to have exhausted his supply of Darkness Powder, at any rate. A fight broke out, they scattered and we gave chase. One of them, Gibbon, broke away and headed up the tower stairs —"
"To set off the Mark?"
"He must have done, yes, they must have arranged that before they left the Room of Requirement,” said Lupin. “But I don’t think Gibbon liked the idea of waiting up there alone for Dumbledore, because he came running back downstairs to rejoin the fight and was hit by a Killing Curse that just missed me."
"So if Ron was watching the Room of Requirement with Ginny and Neville,” said Harry, turning to Hermione, “were you — ?"
"Outside Snape’s office, yes,” whispered Hermione, her eyes sparkling with tears, “with Luna. We hung around for ages outside it and nothing happened. . . . We didn’t know what was going on upstairs, Ron had taken the map. . . . It was nearly midnight when Professor Flitwick came sprinting down into the dungeons. He was shouting about Death Eaters in the castle, I don’t think he really registered that Luna and I were there at all, he just burst his way into Snape’s office and we heard him saying that Snape had to go back with him and help and then we heard a loud thump and Snape came hurtling out of his room and he saw us and — and —"
"What?"
"I was so stupid, Harry!” said Hermione in a high-pitched whisper. “He said Professor Flitwick had collapsed and that we should go and take care of him while he — while he went to help fight the Death Eaters —” She covered her face in shame and continued to talk into her fingers, so that her voice was muffled. “We went into his office to see if we could help Professor Flitwick and found him unconscious on the floor . . . and oh, it’s so obvious now, Snape must have Stupefied Flitwick, but we didn’t realize, Harry, we didn’t realize, we just let Snape go!"
"It’s not your fault,” said Lupin firmly. “Hermione, had you not obeyed Snape and got out of the way, he probably would have killed you and Luna."
"So then he came upstairs,” said Harry, who was watching Snape running up the marble staircase in his mind’s eye, his black robes billowing behind him as ever, pulling his wand from under his cloak as he ascended, “and he found the place where you were all fighting. . . ."
"We were in trouble, we were losing,” said Tonks in a low voice. “Gibbon was down, but the rest of the Death Eaters seemed ready to fight to the death. Neville had been hurt, Bill had been savaged by Greyback . . . It was all dark . . . curses flying everywhere . . . The Malfoy boy had vanished, he must have slipped past, up the stairs . . . then more of them ran after him, but one of them blocked the stair behind them with some kind of curse. . . . Neville ran at it and got thrown up into the air —"
"None of us could break through,” said Ron, “and that massive Death Eater was still firing off jinxes all over the place, they were bouncing off the walls and barely missing us. . . ."
"And then Snape was there,” said Tonks, “and then he wasn’t —"
"I saw him running toward us, but that huge Death Eater’s jinx just missed me right afterward and I ducked and lost track of things,"
"I saw him run straight through the cursed barrier as though it wasn’t there,” said Lupin. “I tried to follow him, but was thrown back just like Neville. . . ."
"He must have known a spell we didn’t,” whispered McGonagall. “After all — he was the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. . . . I just assumed that he was in a hurry to chase after the Death Eaters who’d escaped up to the tower. . . ."
"He was,” said Harry savagely, “but to help them, not to stop them . . . and I’ll bet you had to have a Dark Mark to get through that barrier — so what happened when he came back down?"
"Well, the big Death Eater had just fired off a hex that caused half the ceiling to fall in, and also broke the curse blocking the stairs,” said Lupin. “We all ran forward — those of us who were still standing anyway — and then Snape and the boy emerged out of the dust — obviously, none of us attacked them —"
"We just let them pass,” said Tonks in a hollow voice. “We thought they were being chased by the Death Eaters — and next thing, the other Death Eaters and Greyback were back and we were fighting again — I thought I heard Snape shout something, but I don’t know what —"
"He shouted, ‘It’s over,’” said Harry. “He’d done what he’d meant to do."
"Molly — Arthur —” said Professor McGonagall, jumping up and hurrying to greet them. “I am so sorry —"
"Bill,” whispered Mrs. Weasley, darting past Professor McGonagall as she caught sight of Bill’s mangled face. “Oh, Bill!"
"You said Greyback attacked him?” Mr. Weasley asked Professor McGonagall distractedly. “But he hadn’t transformed? So what does that mean? What will happen to Bill?"
"We don’t yet know,"
"There will probably be some contamination, Arthur,” said Lupin. “It is an odd case, possibly unique. . . . We don’t know what his behavior might be like when he awakens. . . ."
"And Dumbledore . . .” said Mr. Weasley. “Minerva, is it true . . . Is he really . . . ?"
"Dumbledore gone,"
"Of course, it doesn’t matter how he looks. . . . It’s not r-really important . . . but he was a very handsome little b-boy . . . always very handsome . . . and he was g-going to be married!"
"And what do you mean by zat?” said Fleur suddenly and loudly. “What do you mean, ‘’e was going to be married?’"
"Well — only that —"
"You theenk Bill will not wish to marry me anymore?” demanded Fleur. “You theenk, because of these bites, he will not love me?"
"No, that’s not what I —"
"Because ’e will!” said Fleur, drawing herself up to her full height and throwing back her long mane of silver hair. “It would take more zan a werewolf to stop Bill loving me!"
"Well, yes, I’m sure,” said Mrs. Weasley, “but I thought perhaps — given how — how he —"
"You thought I would not weesh to marry him? Or per’aps, you hoped?” said Fleur, her nostrils flaring. “What do I care how he looks? I am good-looking enough for both of us, I theenk! All these scars show is zat my husband is brave! And I shall do zat!"
"Our Great-Auntie Muriel,” said Mrs. Weasley after a long pause, “has a very beautiful tiara — goblin-made — which I am sure I could persuade her to lend you for the wedding. She is very fond of Bill, you know, and it would look lovely with your hair."
"Thank you,” said Fleur stiffly. “I am sure zat will be lovely."
"You see!” said a strained voice. Tonks was glaring at Lupin. “She still wants to marry him, even though he’s been bitten! She doesn’t care!"
"It’s different,” said Lupin, barely moving his lips and looking suddenly tense. “Bill will not be a full werewolf. The cases are completely —"
"But I don’t care either, I don’t care!” said Tonks, seizing the front of Lupin’s robes and shaking them. “I’ve told you a million times. . . ."
"And I’ve told you a million times,” said Lupin, refusing to meet her eyes, staring at the floor, “that I am too old for you, too poor . . . too dangerous. . . ."
"I’ve said all along you’re taking a ridiculous line on this, Remus,"
"I am not being ridiculous,” said Lupin steadily. “Tonks deserves somebody young and whole."
"But she wants you,” said Mr. Weasley, with a small smile. “And after all, Remus, young and whole men do not necessarily remain so."
"This is . . . not the moment to discuss it,” said Lupin, avoiding everybody’s eyes as he looked around distractedly. “Dumbledore is dead. . . ."
"Dumbledore would have been happier than anybody to think that there was a little more love in the world,"
"I’ve . . . I’ve done it, Professor,” he choked. “M-moved him. Professor Sprout’s got the kids back in bed. Professor Flitwick’s lyin’ down, but he says he’ll be all righ’ in a jiffy, an’ Professor Slughorn says the Ministry’s bin informed."
"Thank you, Hagrid,” said Professor McGonagall, standing up at once and turning to look at the group around Bill’s bed. “I shall have to see the Ministry when they get here. Hagrid, please tell the Heads of Houses — Slughorn can represent Slytherin — that I want to see them in my office forthwith. I would like you to join us too."
"Before I meet them I would like a quick word with you, Harry. If you’ll come with me. . . ."
"See you in a bit"
"Harry,” she said, “I would like to know what you and Professor Dumbledore were doing this evening when you left the school."
"I can’t tell you that, Professor,"
"Harry, it might be important,"
"It is,” said Harry, “very, but he didn’t want me to tell anyone."
"Potter” — Harry registered the renewed use of his surname — “in the light of Professor Dumbledore’s death, I think you must see that the situation has changed somewhat —"
"I don’t think so,” said Harry, shrugging. “Professor Dumbledore never told me to stop following his orders if he died."
"But —"
"There’s one thing you should know before the Ministry gets here, though. Madam Rosmerta’s under the Imperius Curse, she was helping Malfoy and the Death Eaters, that’s how the necklace and the poisoned mead —"
"Rosmerta?"
"Snape!” ejaculated Slughorn, who looked the most shaken, pale and sweating. “Snape! I taught him! I thought I knew him!"
"Minerva, the Minister will be here within seconds, he has just Disapparated from the Ministry."
"Thank you, Everard,"
"I want to talk about what happens to Hogwarts before he gets here,” she said quickly. “Personally, I am not convinced that the school should reopen next year. The death of the headmaster at the hands of one of our colleagues is a terrible stain upon Hogwarts’s history. It is horrible."
"I am sure Dumbledore would have wanted the school to remain open,” said Professor Sprout. “I feel that if a single pupil wants to come, then the school ought to remain open for that pupil."
"But will we have a single pupil after this?” said Slughorn, now dabbing his sweating brow with a silken handkerchief. “Parents will want to keep their children at home and I can’t say I blame them. Personally, I don’t think we’re in more danger at Hogwarts than we are anywhere else, but you can’t expect mothers to think like that. They’ll want to keep their families together, it’s only natural."
"I agree,” said Professor McGonagall. “And in any case, it is not true to say that Dumbledore never envisaged a situation in which Hogwarts might close. When the Chamber of Secrets reopened he considered the closure of the school — and I must say that Professor Dumbledore’s murder is more disturbing to me than the idea of Slytherin’s monster living undetected in the bowels of the castle. . . ."
"We must consult the governors,” said Professor Flitwick in his squeaky little voice; he had a large bruise on his forehead but seemed otherwise unscathed by his collapse in Snape’s office. “We must follow the established procedures. A decision should not be made hastily."
"Hagrid, you haven’t said anything,” said Professor McGonagall. “What are your views, ought Hogwarts to remain open?"
"I dunno, Professor . . . that’s fer the Heads of House an’ the headmistress ter decide . . ."
"Professor Dumbledore always valued your views,” said Professor McGonagall kindly, “and so do I."
"Well, I’m stayin’,” said Hagrid, fat tears still leaking out of the corners of his eyes and trickling down into his tangled beard. “It’s me home, it’s bin me home since I was thirteen. An’ if there’s kids who wan’ me ter teach ’em, I’ll do it. But . . . I dunno . . . Hogwarts without Dumbledore . . ."
"Very well,"
"Now, as to getting students home . . . there is an argument for doing it sooner rather than later. We could arrange for the Hogwarts Express to come tomorrow if necessary —"
"What about Dumbledore’s funeral?"
"Well . . .” said Professor McGonagall, losing a little of her briskness as her voice shook. “I — I know that it was Dumbledore’s wish to be laid to rest here, at Hogwarts —"
"Then that’s what’ll happen, isn’t it?"
"If the Ministry thinks it appropriate,” said Professor McGonagall. “No other headmaster or headmistress has ever been —"
"No other headmaster or headmistress ever gave more to this school,"
"Hogwarts should be Dumbledore’s final resting place,"
"Absolutely,"
"And in that case,” said Harry, “you shouldn’t send the students home until the funeral’s over. They’ll want to say —"
"Good-bye."
"Well said,” squeaked Professor Flitwick. “Well said indeed! Our students should pay tribute, it is fitting. We can arrange transport home afterward."
"Seconded,"
"I suppose . . . yes . . ."
"He’s coming,” said Professor McGonagall suddenly, gazing down into the grounds. “The Minister . . . and by the looks of it, he’s brought a delegation . . ."
"Can I leave, Professor?"
"You may,” said Professor McGonagall. “And quickly."
"Is it true?” whispered the Fat Lady as he approached her. “It is really true? Dumbledore — dead?"
"Yes,"
"They’re talking about closing the school,"
"Lupin said they would,"
"So?” said Ron in a very low voice, as though he thought the furniture might be listening in. “Did you find one? Did you get it? A — a Horcrux?"
"You didn’t get it?” said Ron, looking crestfallen. “It wasn’t there?"
"No,” said Harry. “Someone had already taken it and left a fake in its place."
"Already taken — ?"
"R.A.B.,” whispered Ron, “but who was that?"
"Dunno,"
". . . so eet ees lucky ’e is marrying me,” said Fleur happily, plumping up Bill’s pillows, “because ze British overcook their meat, I ’ave always said this."
"I suppose I’m just going to have to accept that he really is going to marry her,"
"She’s not that bad,” said Harry. “Ugly, though,"
"Well, I suppose if Mum can stand it, I can."
"Anyone else we know died?"
"No,” she said reprovingly, folding up the newspaper. “They’re still looking for Snape but no sign . . ."
"Of course there isn’t,” said Harry, who became angry every time this subject cropped up. “They won’t find Snape till they find Voldemort, and seeing as they’ve never managed to do that in all this time . . ."
"I’m going to go to bed,” yawned Ginny. “I haven’t been sleeping that well since . . . well . . . I could do with some sleep."
"Harry, I found something out this morning, in the library."
"R.A.B.?"
"No,” she said sadly, “I’ve been trying, Harry, but I haven’t found anything. . . . There are a couple of reasonably well-known wizards with those initials — Rosalind Antigone Bungs . . . Rupert ‘Axebanger’ Brookstanton . . . but they don’t seem to fit at all. Judging by that note, the person who stole the Horcrux knew Voldemort, and I can’t find a shred of evidence that Bungs or Axebanger ever had anything to do with him. . . . No, actually, it’s about . . . well, Snape."
"What about him?"
"Well, it’s just that I was sort of right about the Half-Blood Prince business,"
"D’you have to rub it in, Hermione? How d’you think I feel about that now?"
"No — no — Harry, I didn’t mean that!” she said hastily, looking around to check that they were not being overheard. “It’s just that I was right about Eileen Prince once owning the book. You see . . . she was Snape’s mother!"
"I thought she wasn’t much of a looker,"
"I was going through the rest of the old Prophets and there was a tiny announcement about Eileen Prince marrying a man called Tobias Snape, and then later an announcement saying that she’d given birth to a —"
"— murderer,"
"Well . . . yes,” said Hermione. “So . . . I was sort of right. Snape must have been proud of being ‘half a Prince,’ you see? Tobias Snape was a Muggle from what it said in the Prophet."
"Yeah, that fits,” said Harry. “He’d play up the pure-blood side so he could get in with Lucius Malfoy and the rest of them. . . . He’s just like Voldemort. Pure-blood mother, Muggle father . . . ashamed of his parentage, trying to make himself feared using the Dark Arts, gave himself an impressive new name — Lord Voldemort — the Half-Blood Prince — how could Dumbledore have missed — ?"
"I still don’t get why he didn’t turn you in for using that book,” said Ron. “He must’ve known where you were getting it all from."
"He knew,” said Harry bitterly. “He knew when I used Sectumsempra. He didn’t really need Legilimency. . . . He might even have known before then, with Slughorn talking about how brilliant I was at Potions. . . . Shouldn’t have left his old book in the bottom of that cupboard, should he?"
"But why didn’t he turn you in?"
"I don’t think he wanted to associate himself with that book,” said Hermione. “I don’t think Dumbledore would have liked it very much if he’d known. And even if Snape pretended it hadn’t been his, Slughorn would have recognized his writing at once. Anyway, the book was left in Snape’s old classroom, and I’ll bet Dumbledore knew his mother was called ‘Prince.’"
"I should’ve shown the book to Dumbledore,” said Harry. “All that time he was showing me how Voldemort was evil even when he was at school, and I had proof Snape was too —"
"‘Evil’ is a strong word,"
"You were the one who kept telling me the book was dangerous!"
"I’m trying to say, Harry, that you’re putting too much blame on yourself. I thought the Prince seemed to have a nasty sense of humor, but I would never have guessed he was a potential killer. . . ."
"None of us could’ve guessed Snape would . . . you know,"
"It is nearly time,” she said. “Please follow your Heads of Houses out into the grounds. Gryffindors, after me."
"In there,"
"Nobility of spirit” . . . “intellectual contribution” . . . “greatness of heart” . . . It did not mean very much. It had little to do with Dumbledore as Harry had known him. He suddenly remembered Dumbledore’s idea of a few words, “nitwit,” “oddment,” “blubber,” and “tweak,"
"Be careful,” or “Don’t do it,"
"Ginny, listen . . .” he said very quietly, as the buzz of conversation grew louder around them and people began to get to their feet, “I can’t be involved with you anymore. We’ve got to stop seeing each other. We can’t be together."
"It’s for some stupid, noble reason, isn’t it?"
"It’s been like . . . like something out of someone else’s life, these last few weeks with you,” said Harry. “But I can’t . . . we can’t . . . I’ve got things to do alone now."
"Voldemort uses people his enemies are close to. He’s already used you as bait once, and that was just because you’re my best friend’s sister. Think how much danger you’ll be in if we keep this up. He’ll know, he’ll find out. He’ll try and get to me through you."
"What if I don’t care?"
"I care,” said Harry. “How do you think I’d feel if this was your funeral . . . and it was my fault. . . ."
"I never really gave up on you,” she said. “Not really. I always hoped. . . . Hermione told me to get on with life, maybe go out with some other people, relax a bit around you, because I never used to be able to talk if you were in the room, remember? And she thought you might take a bit more notice if I was a bit more — myself."
"Smart girl, that Hermione,” said Harry, trying to smile. “I just wish I’d asked you sooner. We could’ve had ages . . . months . . . years maybe. . . ."
"But you’ve been too busy saving the Wizarding world,” said Ginny, half laughing. “Well . . . I can’t say I’m surprised. I knew this would happen in the end. I knew you wouldn’t be happy unless you were hunting Voldemort. Maybe that’s why I like you so much."
"Harry!"
"I’ve been hoping to have a word . . . do you mind if I walk a little way with you?"
"No,"
"Harry, this was a dreadful tragedy,” said Scrimgeour quietly. “I cannot tell you how appalled I was to hear of it. Dumbledore was a very great wizard. We had our disagreements, as you know, but no one knows better than I —"
"What do you want?"
"You are, of course, devastated,” he said. “I know that you were very close to Dumbledore. I think you may have been his favorite pupil ever. The bond between the two of you —"
"What do you want?"
"The word is that you were with him when he left the school the night that he died."
"Whose word?"
"Somebody Stupefied a Death Eater on top of the tower after Dumbledore died. There were also two broomsticks up there. The Ministry can add two and two, Harry."
"Glad to hear it,” said Harry. “Well, where I went with Dumbledore and what we did is my business. He didn’t want people to know."
"Such loyalty is admirable, of course,” said Scrimgeour, who seemed to be restraining his irritation with difficulty, “but Dumbledore is gone, Harry. He’s gone."
"He will only be gone from the school when none here are loyal to him,"
"My dear boy . . . even Dumbledore cannot return from the —"
"I am not saying he can. You wouldn’t understand. But I’ve got nothing to tell you."
"The Ministry can offer you all sorts of protection, you know, Harry. I would be delighted to place a couple of my Aurors at your service —"
"Voldemort wants to kill me himself, and Aurors won’t stop him. So thanks for the offer, but no thanks."
"So,” said Scrimgeour, his voice cold now, “the request I made of you at Christmas —"
"What request? Oh yeah . . . the one where I tell the world what a great job you’re doing in exchange for —"
"— for raising everyone’s morale!"
"Released Stan Shunpike yet?"
"I see you are —"
"Dumbledore’s man through and through,” said Harry. “That’s right."
"What did Scrimgeour want?"
"Same as he wanted at Christmas,” shrugged Harry. “Wanted me to give him inside information on Dumbledore and be the Ministry’s new poster boy."
"Look, let me go back and hit Percy!"
"No,"
"It’ll make me feel better!"
"I can’t bear the idea that we might never come back,” she said softly. “How can Hogwarts close?"
"Maybe it won’t,” said Ron. “We’re not in any more danger here than we are at home, are we? Everywhere’s the same now. I’d even say Hogwarts is safer, there are more wizards inside to defend the place. What d’you reckon, Harry?"
"I’m not coming back even if it does reopen,"
"I knew you were going to say that. But then what will you do?"
"I’m going back to the Dursleys’ once more, because Dumbledore wanted me to,” said Harry. “But it’ll be a short visit, and then I’ll be gone for good."
"But where will you go if you don’t come back to school?"
"I thought I might go back to Godric’s Hollow,” Harry muttered. He had had the idea in his head ever since the night of Dumbledore’s death. “For me, it started there, all of it. I’ve just got a feeling I need to go there. And I can visit my parents’ graves, I’d like that."
"And then what?"
"Then I’ve got to track down the rest of the Horcruxes, haven’t I?” said Harry, his eyes upon Dumbledore’s white tomb, reflected in the water on the other side of the lake. “That’s what he wanted me to do, that’s why he told me all about them. If Dumbledore was right — and I’m sure he was — there are still four of them out there. I’ve got to find them and destroy them, and then I’ve got to go after the seventh bit of Voldemort’s soul, the bit that’s still in his body, and I’m the one who’s going to kill him. And if I meet Severus Snape along the way,” he added, “so much the better for me, so much the worse for him."
"We’ll be there, Harry,"
"What?"
"At your aunt and uncle’s house,” said Ron. “And then we’ll go with you wherever you’re going."
"No —"
"You said to us once before,” said Hermione quietly, “that there was time to turn back if we wanted to. We’ve had time, haven’t we?"
"We’re with you whatever happens,” said Ron. “But mate, you’re going to have to come round my mum and dad’s house before we do anything else, even Godric’s Hollow."
"Why?"
"Bill and Fleur’s wedding, remember?"
"Yeah, we shouldn’t miss that,"
"News?"
"The best,"
"Thought I might be late,” said Yaxley, his blunt features sliding in and out of sight as the branches of overhanging trees broke the moonlight. “It was a little trickier than I expected. But I hope he will be satisfied. You sound confident that your reception will be good?"
"He always did himself well, Lucius. Peacocks . . ."
"Yaxley. Snape,” said a high, clear voice from the head of the table. “You are very nearly late."
"Severus, here,” said Voldemort, indicating the seat on his immediate right. “Yaxley — beside Dolohov."
"So?"
"My Lord, the Order of the Phoenix intends to move Harry Potter from his current place of safety on Saturday next, at nightfall."
"Saturday . . . at nightfall,"
"Good. Very good. And this information comes —"
"— from the source we discussed,"
"My Lord."
"My Lord, I have heard differently."
"Dawlish, the Auror, let slip that Potter will not be moved until the thirtieth, the night before the boy turns seventeen."
"My source told me that there are plans to lay a false trail; this must be it. No doubt a Confundus Charm has been placed upon Dawlish. It would not be the first time; he is known to be susceptible."
"I assure you, my Lord, Dawlish seemed quite certain,"
"If he has been Confunded, naturally he is certain,” said Snape. “I assure you, Yaxley, the Auror Office will play no further part in the protection of Harry Potter. The Order believes that we have infiltrated the Ministry."
"The Order’s got one thing right, then, eh?"
"My Lord,” Yaxley went on, “Dawlish believes an entire party of Aurors will be used to transfer the boy —"
"Where are they going to hide the boy next?"
"At the home of one of the Order,” said Snape. “The place, according to the source, has been given every protection that the Order and Ministry together could provide. I think that there is little chance of taking him once he is there, my Lord, unless, of course, the Ministry has fallen before next Saturday, which might give us the opportunity to discover and undo enough of the enchantments to break through the rest."
"Well, Yaxley?” Voldemort called down the table, the firelight glinting strangely in his red eyes. “Will the Ministry have fallen by next Saturday?"
"My Lord, I have good news on that score. I have — with difficulty, and after great effort — succeeded in placing an Imperius Curse upon Pius Thicknesse."
"It is a start,” said Voldemort. “But Thicknesse is only one man. Scrimgeour must be surrounded by our people before I act. One failed attempt on the Minister’s life will set me back a long way."
"Yes — my Lord, that is true — but you know, as Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Thicknesse has regular contact not only with the Minister himself, but also with the Heads of all the other Ministry departments. It will, I think, be easy now that we have such a high-ranking official under our control, to subjugate the others, and then they can all work together to bring Scrimgeour down."
"As long as our friend Thicknesse is not discovered before he has converted the rest,” said Voldemort. “At any rate, it remains unlikely that the Ministry will be mine before next Saturday. If we cannot touch the boy at his destination, then it must be done while he travels."
"We are at an advantage there, my Lord,” said Yaxley, who seemed determined to receive some portion of approval. “We now have several people planted within the Department of Magical Transport. If Potter Apparates or uses the Floo Network, we shall know immediately."
"He will not do either,” said Snape. “The Order is eschewing any form of transport that is controlled or regulated by the Ministry; they mistrust everything to do with the place."
"All the better,” said Voldemort. “He will have to move in the open. Easier to take, by far."
"I shall attend to the boy in person. There have been too many mistakes where Harry Potter is concerned. Some of them have been my own. That Potter lives is due more to my errors than to his triumphs."
"I have been careless, and so have been thwarted by luck and chance, those wreckers of all but the best-laid plans. But I know better now. I understand those things that I did not understand before. I must be the one to kill Harry Potter, and I shall be."
"Wormtail,” said Voldemort, with no change in his quiet, thoughtful tone, and without removing his eyes from the revolving body above, “have I not spoken to you about keeping our prisoner quiet?"
"Yes, m-my Lord,"
"As I was saying,” continued Voldemort, looking again at the tense faces of his followers, “I understand better now. I shall need, for instance, to borrow a wand from one of you before I go to kill Potter."
"No volunteers?” said Voldemort. “Let’s see . . . Lucius, I see no reason for you to have a wand anymore."
"My Lord?"
"Your wand, Lucius. I require your wand."
"I . . ."
"What is it?"
"Elm, my Lord,"
"And the core?"
"Dragon — dragon heartstring."
"Good,"
"Give you my wand, Lucius? My wand?"
"I have given you your liberty, Lucius, is that not enough for you? But I have noticed that you and your family seem less than happy of late. . . . What is it about my presence in your home that displeases you, Lucius?"
"Nothing — nothing, my Lord!"
"Such lies, Lucius . . ."
"Why do the Malfoys look so unhappy with their lot? Is my return, my rise to power, not the very thing they professed to desire for so many years?"
"Of course, my Lord,” said Lucius Malfoy. His hand shook as he wiped sweat from his upper lip. “We did desire it — we do."
"My Lord,” said a dark woman halfway down the table, her voice constricted with emotion, “it is an honor to have you here, in our family’s house. There can be no higher pleasure."
"No higher pleasure,” repeated Voldemort, his head tilted a little to one side as he considered Bellatrix. “That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you."
"My Lord knows I speak nothing but the truth!"
"No higher pleasure . . . even compared with the happy event that, I hear, has taken place in your family this week?"
"I don’t know what you mean, my Lord."
"I’m talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And yours, Lucius and Narcissa. She has just married the werewolf, Remus Lupin. You must be so proud."
"She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried over the outpouring of mirth. “We — Narcissa and I — have never set eyes on our sister since she married the Mudblood. This brat has nothing to do with either of us, nor any beast she marries."
"What say you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, and though his voice was quiet, it carried clearly through the catcalls and jeers. “Will you babysit the cubs?"
"Enough,” said Voldemort, stroking the angry snake. “Enough."
"Many of our oldest family trees become a little diseased over time,” he said as Bellatrix gazed at him, breathless and imploring. “You must prune yours, must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those parts that threaten the health of the rest."
"Yes, my Lord,” whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes swam with tears of gratitude again. “At the first chance!"
"You shall have it,” said Voldemort. “And in your family, so in the world . . . we shall cut away the canker that infects us until only those of the true blood remain. . . ."
"Do you recognize our guest, Severus?"
"Severus! Help me!"
"Ah, yes,"
"And you, Draco?"
"But you would not have taken her classes,” said Voldemort. “For those of you who do not know, we are joined here tonight by Charity Burbage who, until recently, taught at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry."
"Yes . . . Professor Burbage taught the children of witches and wizards all about Muggles . . . how they are not so different from us . . . ."
"Severus . . . please . . . please . . ."
"Silence,” said Voldemort, with another twitch of Malfoy’s wand, and Charity fell silent as if gagged. “Not content with corrupting and polluting the minds of Wizarding children, last week Professor Burbage wrote an impassioned defense of Mudbloods in the Daily Prophet. Wizards, she says, must accept these thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling of the purebloods is, says Professor Burbage, a most desirable circumstance. . . . She would have us all mate with Muggles . . . or, no doubt, werewolves. . . ."
"Avada Kedavra."
"Dinner, Nagini,"
"What the — ?"
"What do you see when you look in the mirror?"
"I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks."
"Well, of course, Dumbledore is a biographer’s dream,” says Skeeter. “Such a long, full life. I’m sure my book will be the first of very, very many."
"Oh, when you’ve been a journalist as long as I have, working to a deadline is second nature. I knew that the Wizarding world was clamoring for the full story and I wanted to be the first to meet that need."
"Skeeter’s book contains less fact than a Chocolate Frog card."
"Darling Dodgy! I remember interviewing him a few years back about merpeople rights, bless him. Completely gaga, seemed to think we were sitting at the bottom of Lake Windermere, kept telling me to watch out for trout."
"Oh, my dear,” beams Skeeter, rapping me affectionately across the knuckles, “you know as well as I do how much information can be generated by a fat bag of Galleons, a refusal to hear the word ‘no,’ and a nice sharp Quick-Quotes Quill! People were queuing to dish the dirt on Dumbledore anyway. Not everyone thought he was so wonderful, you know — he trod on an awful lot of important toes. But old Dodgy Doge can get off his high hippogriff, because I’ve had access to a source most journalists would swap their wands for, one who has never spoken in public before and who was close to Dumbledore during the most turbulent and disturbing phase of his youth."
"Now, come off it, Betty, I’m not giving away all the highlights before anybody’s bought the book!” laughs Skeeter. “But I can promise that anybody who still thinks Dumbledore was white as his beard is in for a rude awakening! Let’s just say that nobody hearing him rage against You-Know-Who would have dreamed that he dabbled in the Dark Arts himself in his youth! And for a wizard who spent his later years pleading for tolerance, he wasn’t exactly broad-minded when he was younger! Yes, Albus Dumbledore had an extremely murky past, not to mention that very fishy family, which he worked so hard to keep hushed up."
"Oh, Aberforth is just the tip of the dung heap,” laughs Skeeter. “No, no, I’m talking about much worse than a brother with a fondness for fiddling about with goats, worse even than the Muggle-maiming father — Dumbledore couldn’t keep either of them quiet anyway, they were both charged by the Wizengamot. No, it’s the mother and the sister that intrigued me, and a little digging uncovered a positive nest of nastiness — but, as I say, you’ll have to wait for chapters nine to twelve for full details. All I can say now is, it’s no wonder Dumbledore never talked about how his nose got broken."
"He had brains,” she concedes, “although many now question whether he could really take full credit for all of his supposed achievements. As I reveal in chapter sixteen, Ivor Dillonsby claims he had already discovered eight uses of dragon’s blood when Dumbledore ‘borrowed’ his papers."
"Oh, now, I’m glad you mentioned Grindelwald,” says Skeeter with a tantalizing smile. “I’m afraid those who go dewy-eyed over Dumbledore’s spectacular victory must brace themselves for a bombshell — or perhaps a Dungbomb. Very dirty business indeed. All I’ll say is, don’t be so sure that there really was the spectacular duel of legend. After they’ve read my book, people may be forced to conclude that Grindelwald simply conjured a white handkerchief from the end of his wand and came quietly!"
"Oh yes,” says Skeeter, nodding briskly, “I devote an entire chapter to the whole Potter–Dumbledore relationship. It’s been called unhealthy, even sinister. Again, your readers will have to buy my book for the whole story, but there is no question that Dumbledore took an unnatural interest in Potter from the word go. Whether that was really in the boy’s best interests — well, we’ll see. It’s certainly an open secret that Potter has had a most troubled adolescence."
"Oh, yes, we’ve developed a close bond,” says Skeeter. “Poor Potter has few real friends, and we met at one of the most testing moments of his life — the Triwizard Tournament. I am probably one of the only people alive who can say that they know the real Harry Potter."
"Well, I don’t want to say too much — it’s all in the book — but eyewitnesses inside Hogwarts castle saw Potter running away from the scene moments after Dumbledore fell, jumped, or was pushed. Potter later gave evidence against Severus Snape, a man against whom he has a notorious grudge. Is everything as it seems? That is for the Wizarding community to decide — once they’ve read my book."
"Lies!"
"Oi! You!"
"BOY!"
"You took your time!” roared Vernon Dursley when Harry appeared at the top of the stairs. “Get down here, I want a word!"
"Yes?"
"Sit down!” said Uncle Vernon. Harry raised his eyebrows. “Please!"
"I’ve changed my mind,"
"What a surprise,"
"Don’t you take that tone —"
"It’s all a lot of claptrap,” said Uncle Vernon, glaring at Harry with piggy little eyes. “I’ve decided I don’t believe a word of it. We’re staying put, we’re not going anywhere."
"According to you,” Vernon Dursley said now, resuming his pacing up and down the living room, “we — Petunia, Dudley, and I — are in danger. From — from —"
"Some of ‘my lot,’ right,"
"Well, I don’t believe it,” repeated Uncle Vernon, coming to a halt in front of Harry again. “I was awake half the night thinking it all over, and I believe it’s a plot to get the house."
"The house?” repeated Harry. “What house?"
"This house!” shrieked Uncle Vernon, the vein in his forehead starting to pulse. “Our house! House prices are skyrocketing around here! You want us out of the way and then you’re going to do a bit of hocus-pocus and before we know it the deeds will be in your name and —"
"Are you out of your mind?” demanded Harry. “A plot to get this house? Are you actually as stupid as you look?"
"Don’t you dare — !"
"Just in case you’ve forgotten,” said Harry, “I’ve already got a house, my godfather left me one. So why would I want this one? All the happy memories?"
"You claim,” said Uncle Vernon, starting to pace yet again, “that this Lord Thing —"
"— Voldemort,” said Harry impatiently, “and we’ve been through this about a hundred times already. This isn’t a claim, it’s fact, Dumbledore told you last year, and Kingsley and Mr. Weasley —"
"— Kingsley and Mr. Weasley explained it all as well,” Harry pressed on remorselessly. “Once I’m seventeen, the protective charm that keeps me safe will break, and that exposes you as well as me. The Order is sure Voldemort will target you, whether to torture you to try and find out where I am, or because he thinks by holding you hostage I’d come and try to rescue you."
"You’ve got to go into hiding and the Order wants to help. You’re being offered serious protection, the best there is."
"I thought there was a Ministry of Magic?"
"There is,"
"Well, then, why can’t they protect us? It seems to me that, as innocent victims, guilty of nothing more than harboring a marked man, we ought to qualify for government protection!"
"You heard what Mr. Weasley and Kingsley said,” Harry replied. “We think the Ministry has been infiltrated."
"All right,” he said, stopping in front of Harry yet again. “All right, let’s say, for the sake of argument, we accept this protection. I still don’t see why we can’t have that Kingsley bloke."
"As I’ve told you,” he said through gritted teeth, “Kingsley is protecting the Mug — I mean, your Prime Minister."
"Exactly — he’s the best!"
"Well, he’s taken,” said Harry. “But Hestia Jones and Dedalus Diggle are more than up to the job —"
"If we’d even seen CVs . . ."
"These accidents aren’t accidents — the crashes and explosions and derailments and whatever else has happened since we last watched the news. People are disappearing and dying and he’s behind it — Voldemort. I’ve told you this over and over again, he kills Muggles for fun. Even the fogs — they’re caused by dementors, and if you can’t remember what they are, ask your son!"
"There are . . . more of them?"
"More?” laughed Harry. “More than the two that attacked us, you mean? Of course there are, there are hundreds, maybe thousands by this time, seeing as they feed off fear and despair —"
"All right, all right,” blustered Vernon Dursley. “You’ve made your point —"
"I hope so,” said Harry, “because once I’m seventeen, all of them — Death Eaters, dementors, maybe even Inferi — which means dead bodies enchanted by a Dark wizard — will be able to find you and will certainly attack you. And if you remember the last time you tried to outrun wizards, I think you’ll agree you need help."
"But what about my work? What about Dudley’s school? I don’t suppose those things matter to a bunch of layabout wizards —"
"Don’t you understand?” shouted Harry. “They will torture and kill you like they did my parents!"
"Dad,” said Dudley in a loud voice, “Dad — I’m going with these Order people."
"Dudley,” said Harry, “for the first time in your life, you’re talking sense."
"They’ll be here in about five minutes,"
"We’re leaving soon, really soon,” Harry told her. “And then you’ll be able to fly again."
"Harry Potter!” squeaked an excited voice, the moment Harry had opened the door; a small man in a mauve top hat was sweeping him a deep bow. “An honor, as ever!"
"Thanks, Dedalus,” said Harry, bestowing a small and embarrassed smile upon the dark-haired Hestia. “It’s really good of you to do this . . . They’re through here, my aunt and uncle and cousin. . . ."
"Good day to you, Harry Potter’s relatives!"
"I see you are packed and ready. Excellent! The plan, as Harry has told you, is a simple one,” said Dedalus, pulling an immense pocket watch out of his waistcoat and examining it. “We shall be leaving before Harry does. Due to the danger of using magic in your house — Harry being still underage, it could provide the Ministry with an excuse to arrest him — we shall be driving, say, ten miles or so, before Disapparating to the safe location we have picked out for you. You know how to drive, I take it?"
"Know how to — ? Of course I ruddy well know how to drive!"
"Very clever of you, sir, very clever, I personally would be utterly bamboozled by all those buttons and knobs,"
"Can’t even drive,"
"You, Harry,” Dedalus continued, “will wait here for your guard. There has been a little change in the arrangements —"
"What d’you mean?” said Harry at once. “I thought Mad-Eye was going to come and take me by Side-Along-Apparition?"
"Can’t do it,” said Hestia tersely. “Mad-Eye will explain."
"Hurry up!"
"Quite right, we’re operating to a very tight schedule,” said Dedalus, nodding at his watch and tucking it back into his waistcoat. “We are attempting to time your departure from the house with your family’s Disapparition, Harry; thus, the charm breaks at the moment you all head for safety.” He turned to the Dursleys. “Well, are we all packed and ready to go?"
"Perhaps we should wait outside in the hall, Dedalus,"
"There’s no need,"
"Well, this is good-bye, then, boy."
"Ready, Diddy?"
"Come along, then,"
"I don’t understand."
"What don’t you understand, popkin?"
"Why isn’t he coming with us?"
"What?"
"Why isn’t he coming too?"
"Well, he — he doesn’t want to,” said Uncle Vernon, turning to glare at Harry and adding, “You don’t want to, do you?"
"Not in the slightest,"
"There you are,” Uncle Vernon told Dudley. “Now come on, we’re off."
"What now?"
"But where’s he going to go?"
"But . . . surely you know where your nephew is going?"
"Certainly we know,” said Vernon Dursley. “He’s off with some of your lot, isn’t he? Right, Dudley, let’s get in the car, you heard the man, we’re in a hurry."
"Off with some of our lot?"
"It’s fine,” Harry assured her. “It doesn’t matter, honestly."
"Doesn’t matter?” repeated Hestia, her voice rising ominously. “Don’t these people realize what you’ve been through? What danger you are in? The unique position you hold in the hearts of the anti-Voldemort movement?"
"Er — no, they don’t,” said Harry. “They think I’m a waste of space, actually, but I’m used to —"
"I don’t think you’re a waste of space."
"Well . . . er . . . thanks, Dudley."
"You saved my life."
"Not really,” said Harry. “It was your soul the dementor would have taken. . . ."
"S-so sweet, Dudders . . .” she sobbed into his massive chest. “S-such a lovely b-boy . . . s-saying thank you . . ."
"But he hasn’t said thank you at all!” said Hestia indignantly. “He only said he didn’t think Harry was a waste of space!"
"Yeah, but coming from Dudley that’s like ‘I love you,’"
"Are we going or not?” roared Uncle Vernon, reappearing yet again at the living room door. “I thought we were on a tight schedule!"
"Yes — yes, we are,” said Dedalus Diggle, who had been watching these exchanges with an air of bemusement and now seemed to pull himself together. “We really must be off. Harry —"
"— good luck. I hope we meet again. The hopes of the Wizarding world rest upon your shoulders."
"Oh,” said Harry, “right. Thanks."
"Farewell, Harry,” said Hestia, also clasping his hand. “Our thoughts go with you."
"I hope everything’s okay,"
"Oh, I’m sure we shall end up the best of chums,"
"Blimey, Dudley,” said Harry over Aunt Petunia’s renewed sobs, “did the dementors blow a different personality into you?"
"Dunno,” muttered Dudley. “See you, Harry."
"Yeah . . .” said Harry, taking Dudley’s hand and shaking it. “Maybe. Take care, Big D."
"Well — good-bye,"
"Good-bye,"
"Don’t you want to take a last look at the place?” he asked Hedwig, who was still sulking with her head under her wing. “We’ll never be here again. Don’t you want to remember all the good times? I mean, look at this doormat. What memories . . . Dudley puked on it after I saved him from the dementors. . . . Turns out he was grateful after all, can you believe it? . . . And last summer, Dumbledore walked through that front door. . . ."
"And under here, Hedwig” — Harry pulled open a door under the stairs — “is where I used to sleep! You never knew me then — Blimey, it’s small, I’d forgotten. . . ."
"All righ’, Harry? Ready fer the off?"
"Definitely,” said Harry, beaming around at them all. “But I wasn’t expecting this many of you!"
"Change of plan,” growled Mad-Eye, who was holding two enormous, bulging sacks, and whose magical eye was spinning from darkening sky to house to garden with dizzying rapidity. “Let’s get undercover before we talk you through it."
"Kingsley, I thought you were looking after the Muggle Prime Minister?"
"He can get along without me for one night,” said Kingsley. “You’re more important."
"Harry, guess what?"
"You got married?"
"I’m sorry you couldn’t be there, Harry, it was very quiet."
"That’s brilliant, congrat —"
"All right, all right, we’ll have time for a cozy catch-up later!"
"Second problem: You’re underage, which means you’ve still got the Trace on you."
"I don’t —"
"The Trace, the Trace!"
"We can’t wait for the Trace to break, because the moment you turn seventeen you’ll lose all the protection your mother gave you. In short: Pius Thicknesse thinks he’s got you cornered good and proper."
"So what are we going to do?"
"We’re going to use the only means of transport left to us, the only ones the Trace can’t detect, because we don’t need to cast spells to use them: brooms, thestrals, and Hagrid’s motorbike."
"Now, your mother’s charm will only break under two conditions: when you come of age, or” — Moody gestured around the pristine kitchen — “you no longer call this place home. You and your aunt and uncle are going your separate ways tonight, in the full understanding that you’re never going to live together again, correct?"
"The one thing we’ve got on our side is that You-Know-Who doesn’t know we’re moving you tonight. We’ve leaked a fake trail to the Ministry: They think you’re not leaving until the thirtieth. However, this is You-Know-Who we’re dealing with, so we can’t just rely on him getting the date wrong; he’s bound to have a couple of Death Eaters patrolling the skies in this general area, just in case. So, we’ve given a dozen different houses every protection we can throw at them. They all look like they could be the place we’re going to hide you, they’ve all got some connection with the Order: my house, Kingsley’s place, Molly’s Auntie Muriel’s — you get the idea."
"Yeah,"
"You’ll be going to Tonks’s parents. Once you’re within the boundaries of the protective enchantments we’ve put on their house, you’ll be able to use a Portkey to the Burrow. Any questions?"
"Er — yes,” said Harry. “Maybe they won’t know which of the twelve secure houses I’m heading for at first, but won’t it be sort of obvious once” — he performed a quick headcount — “fourteen of us fly off toward Tonks’s parents’?"
"Ah,” said Moody, “I forgot to mention the key point. Fourteen of us won’t be flying to Tonks’s parents’. There will be seven Harry Potters moving through the skies tonight, each of them with a companion, each pair heading for a different safe house."
"No!” he said loudly, his voice ringing through the kitchen. “No way!"
"I told them you’d take it like this,"
"If you think I’m going to let six people risk their lives — !"
"— because it’s the first time for all of us,"
"This is different, pretending to be me —"
"Well, none of us really fancy it, Harry,” said Fred earnestly. “Imagine if something went wrong and we were stuck as specky, scrawny gits forever."
"You can’t do it if I don’t cooperate, you need me to give you some hair."
"Well, that’s that plan scuppered,” said George. “Obviously there’s no chance at all of us getting a bit of your hair unless you cooperate."
"Yeah, thirteen of us against one bloke who’s not allowed to use magic; we’ve got no chance,"
"Funny,” said Harry, “really amusing."
"If it has to come to force, then it will,” growled Moody, his magical eye now quivering a little in its socket as he glared at Harry. “Everyone here’s overage, Potter, and they’re all prepared to take the risk."
"Let’s have no more arguments. Time’s wearing on. I want a few of your hairs, boy, now."
"But this is mad, there’s no need —"
"No need!” snarled Moody. “With You-Know-Who out there and half the Ministry on his side? Potter, if we’re lucky he’ll have swallowed the fake bait and he’ll be planning to ambush you on the thirtieth, but he’d be mad not to have a Death Eater or two keeping an eye out, it’s what I’d do. They might not be able to get at you or this house while your mother’s charm holds, but it’s about to break and they know the rough position of the place. Our only chance is to use decoys. Even You-Know-Who can’t split himself into seven."
"So, Potter — some of your hair, if you please."
"Now!"
"Good,” said Moody, limping forward as he pulled the stopper out of the flask of potion. “Straight in here, if you please."
"Ooh, you look much tastier than Crabbe and Goyle, Harry,” said Hermione, before catching sight of Ron’s raised eyebrows, blushing slightly, and saying, “Oh, you know what I mean — Goyle’s potion looked like bogies."
"Right then, fake Potters line up over here, please,"
"We’re one short,"
"Here,"
"I’ve toldjer, I’d sooner be a protector,"
"Shut it,” growled Moody. “As I’ve already told you, you spineless worm, any Death Eaters we run into will be aiming to capture Potter, not kill him. Dumbledore always said You-Know-Who would want to finish Potter in person. It’ll be the protectors who have got the most to worry about, the Death Eaters’ll want to kill them."
"Altogether, then . . ."
"Wow — we’re identical!"
"I dunno, though, I think I’m still better-looking,"
"Bah,” said Fleur, checking herself in the microwave door, “Bill, don’t look at me — I’m ’ideous."
"Those whose clothes are a bit roomy, I’ve got smaller here,” said Moody, indicating the first sack, “and vice versa. Don’t forget the glasses, there’s six pairs in the side pocket. And when you’re dressed, there’s luggage in the other sack."
"I knew Ginny was lying about that tattoo,"
"Harry, your eyesight really is awful,"
"Good,” said Moody, as at last seven dressed, bespectacled, and luggage-laden Harrys faced him. “The pairs will be as follows: Mundungus will be traveling with me, by broom —"
"Why’m I with you?"
"Because you’re the one that needs watching,” growled Moody, and sure enough, his magical eye did not waver from Mundungus as he continued, “Arthur and Fred —"
"I’m George,” said the twin at whom Moody was pointing. “Can’t you even tell us apart when we’re Harry?"
"Sorry, George —"
"I’m only yanking your wand, I’m Fred really —"
"Enough messing around!” snarled Moody. “The other one — George or Fred or whoever you are — you’re with Remus. Miss Delacour —"
"I’m taking Fleur on a thestral,” said Bill. “She’s not that fond of brooms."
"Miss Granger with Kingsley, again by thestral —"
"Which leaves you and me, Ron!"
"An’ you’re with me, Harry. That all righ’?” said Hagrid, looking a little anxious. “We’ll be on the bike, brooms an’ thestrals can’t take me weight, see. Not a lot o’ room on the seat with me on it, though, so you’ll be in the sidecar."
"That’s great,"
"We think the Death Eaters will expect you to be on a broom,” said Moody, who seemed to guess how Harry was feeling. “Snape’s had plenty of time to tell them everything about you he’s never mentioned before, so if we do run into any Death Eaters, we’re betting they’ll choose one of the Potters who look at home on a broomstick. All right then,” he went on, tying up the sack with the fake Potters’ clothes in it and leading the way back to the door, “I make it three minutes until we’re supposed to leave. No point locking the back door, it won’t keep the Death Eaters out when they come looking. . . . Come on. . . ."
"Is this it? Is this Sirius’s bike?"
"The very same,” said Hagrid, beaming down at Harry. “An’ the last time yeh was on it, Harry, I could fit yeh in one hand!"
"Arthur’s done a bit o’ tinkerin’,” said Hagrid, quite oblivious to Harry’s discomfort. He settled himself astride the motorcycle, which creaked slightly and sank inches into the ground. “It’s got a few tricks up its handlebars now. Tha’ one was my idea."
"Please be careful, Hagrid,” said Mr. Weasley, who was standing beside them, holding his broomstick. “I’m still not sure that was advisable and it’s certainly only to be used in emergencies."
"All right then,” said Moody. “Everyone ready, please; I want us all to leave at exactly the same time or the whole point of the diversion’s lost."
"Hold tight now, Ron,"
"Good luck, everyone,” shouted Moody. “See you all in about an hour at the Burrow. On the count of three. One . . . two . . . THREE."
"No — HEDWIG!"
"No — NO!"
"Hedwig — Hedwig —"
"Hagrid, we’ve got to go back, we’ve got to go back!” he yelled over the thunderous roar of the engine, pulling out his wand, ramming Hedwig’s cage onto the floor, refusing to believe that she was dead. “Hagrid, TURN AROUND!"
"My job’s ter get you there safe, Harry!"
"Stop — STOP!” Harry shouted, but as he looked back again two jets of green light flew past his left ear: Four Death Eaters had broken away from the circle and were pursuing them, aiming for Hagrid’s broad back. Hagrid swerved, but the Death Eaters were keeping up with the bike; more curses shot after them, and Harry had to sink low into the sidecar to avoid them. Wriggling around he cried, “Stupefy!"
"Hold on, Harry, this’ll do for ’em!"
"Here we go again, Harry, hold on!"
"This’ll do it, Harry, hold on tight!"
"It’s all righ’, Harry!"
"I’m on it, Harry, don’ worry!"
"Hagrid! No! Let me!"
"REPARO!"
"Wingardium Leviosa!"
"I’m comin’, Harry!” Hagrid yelled from out of the darkness, but Harry could feel the sidecar beginning to sink again: Crouching as low as he could, he pointed at the middle of the oncoming figures and yelled, “Impedimenta!"
"I’m comin’, Harry, I’m comin’!"
"Confringo!"
"Harry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry,” moaned Hagrid, “I shouldn’ta tried ter repair it meself — yeh’ve got no room —"
"It’s not a problem, just keep flying!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"That’s him, it’s him, it’s the real one!"
"Harry, what’s happened?” bellowed Hagrid. “Where’ve they gone?"
"I don’t know!"
"It’s the real one!"
"Hagrid, do the dragon-fire thing again, let’s get out of here!"
"Hold on tight, then, Harry!"
"I think we’ve lost ’em Harry, I think we’ve done it!"
"We’re nearly there, Harry, we’ve nearly made it!"
"NO!"
"Mine!"
"Avada —"
"No!"
"Hagrid!” Harry called, holding on to the bike for dear life. “Hagrid — Accio Hagrid!"
"Your wand, Selwyn, give me your wand!"
"Hagrid? Hagrid, talk to me —"
"Who’s there? Is it Potter? Are you Harry Potter?"
"They’ve crashed, Ted! Crashed in the garden!"
"Hagrid,"
"Hagrid?"
"Hagrid’s fine, son,” said the man, “the wife’s seeing to him now. How are you feeling? Anything else broken? I’ve fixed your ribs, your tooth, and your arm. I’m Ted, by the way, Ted Tonks — Dora’s father."
"Voldemort —"
"Easy, now,” said Ted Tonks, placing a hand on Harry’s shoulder and pushing him back against the cushions. “That was a nasty crash you just had. What happened, anyway? Something go wrong with the bike? Arthur Weasley overstretch himself again, him and his Muggle contraptions?"
"No,” said Harry, as his scar pulsed like an open wound. “Death Eaters, loads of them — we were chased —"
"Death Eaters?” said Ted sharply. “What d’you mean, Death Eaters? I thought they didn’t know you were being moved tonight, I thought —"
"They knew,"
"Well, we know our protective charms hold, then, don’t we? They shouldn’t be able to get within a hundred yards of the place in any direction."
"Harry!"
"Blimey, Harry, how did yeh get out o’ that? I thought we were both goners."
"Yeah, me too. I can’t believe —"
"You!"
"Your wand’s here, son,” said Ted, tapping it on Harry’s arm. “It fell right beside you, I picked it up. And that’s my wife you’re shouting at."
"Oh, I’m — I’m sorry."
"What happened to our daughter?” she asked. “Hagrid said you were ambushed; where is Nymphadora?"
"I don’t know,” said Harry. “We don’t know what happened to anyone else."
"The Portkey,” he said, remembering all of a sudden. “We’ve got to get back to the Burrow and find out — then we’ll be able to send you word, or — or Tonks will, once she’s —"
"Dora’ll be okay, ’Dromeda,” said Ted. “She knows her stuff, she’s been in plenty of tight spots with the Aurors. The Portkey’s through here,” he added to Harry. “It’s supposed to leave in three minutes, if you want to take it."
"Yeah, we do,” said Harry. He seized his rucksack, swung it onto his shoulders. “I —"
"I’ll tell Tonks — Dora — to send word, when she . . . Thanks for patching us up, thanks for everything. I —"
"There you go, son. That’s the Portkey."
"Thanks,"
"Wait a moment,” said Hagrid, looking around. “Harry, where’s Hedwig?"
"She . . . she got hit,"
"Never mind,” he said gruffly. “Never mind. She had a great old life —"
"Hagrid!"
"Harry? You are the real Harry? What happened? Where are the others?"
"What d’you mean? Isn’t anyone else back?"
"The Death Eaters were waiting for us,” Harry told her. “We were surrounded the moment we took off — they knew it was tonight — I don’t know what happened to anyone else, four of them chased us, it was all we could do to get away, and then Voldemort caught up with us —"
"Thank goodness you’re all right,"
"Haven’t go’ any brandy, have yeh, Molly?” asked Hagrid a little shakily. “Fer medicinal purposes?"
"Ron and Tonks should have been back first, but they missed their Portkey, it came back without them,” she said, pointing at a rusty oil can lying on the ground nearby. “And that one,” she pointed at an ancient sneaker, “should have been Dad and Fred’s, they were supposed to be second. You and Hagrid were third and,” she checked her watch, “if they made it, George and Lupin ought to be back in about a minute."
"Mum!"
"Oi!” said Hagrid indignantly. “Le’ go of him! Le’ go of Harry!"
"What creature sat in the corner the first time that Harry Potter visited my office at Hogwarts?” he said, giving Harry a small shake. “Answer me!"
"A — a grindylow in a tank, wasn’t it?"
"Wha’ was tha’ about?"
"I’m sorry, Harry, but I had to check,” said Lupin tersely. “We’ve been betrayed. Voldemort knew that you were being moved tonight and the only people who could have told him were directly involved in the plan. You might have been an impostor."
"So why aren’ you checkin’ me?"
"You’re half-giant,” said Lupin, looking up at Hagrid. “The Polyjuice Potion is designed for human use only."
"None of the Order would have told Voldemort we were moving tonight,” said Harry. The idea was dreadful to him, he could not believe it of any of them. “Voldemort only caught up with me toward the end, he didn’t know which one I was in the beginning. If he’d been in on the plan he’d have known from the start I was the one with Hagrid."
"Voldemort caught up with you?” said Lupin sharply. “What happened? How did you escape?"
"They recognized you? But how? What had you done?"
"I . . .” Harry tried to remember; the whole journey seemed like a blur of panic and confusion. “I saw Stan Shunpike. . . . You know, the bloke who was the conductor on the Knight Bus? And I tried to Disarm him instead of — well, he doesn’t know what he’s doing, does he? He must be Imperiused!"
"Harry, the time for Disarming is past! These people are trying to capture and kill you! At least Stun if you aren’t prepared to kill!"
"We were hundreds of feet up! Stan’s not himself, and if I Stunned him and he’d fallen, he’d have died the same as if I’d used Avada Kedavra! Expelliarmus saved me from Voldemort two years ago,"
"Yes, Harry,” said Lupin with painful restraint, “and a great number of Death Eaters witnessed that happening! Forgive me, but it was a very unusual move then, under imminent threat of death. Repeating it tonight in front of Death Eaters who either witnessed or heard about the first occasion was close to suicidal!"
"So you think I should have killed Stan Shunpike?"
"Of course not,” said Lupin, “but the Death Eaters — frankly, most people! — would have expected you to attack back! Expelliarmus is a useful spell, Harry, but the Death Eaters seem to think it is your signature move, and I urge you not to let it become so!"
"I won’t blast people out of my way just because they’re there,” said Harry. “That’s Voldemort’s job."
"Will George be okay?"
"I think so, although there’s no chance of replacing his ear, not when it’s been cursed off —"
"The last words Albus Dumbledore spoke to the pair of us?"
"‘Harry is the best hope we have. Trust him,’"
"It’s him, I’ve checked!"
"All right, all right!” said Kingsley, stowing his wand back beneath his cloak. “But somebody betrayed us! They knew, they knew it was tonight!"
"So it seems,” replied Lupin, “but apparently they did not realize that there would be seven Harrys."
"Small comfort!” snarled Kingsley. “Who else is back?"
"Only Harry, Hagrid, George, and me."
"What happened to you?"
"Followed by five, injured two, might’ve killed one,” Kingsley reeled off, “and we saw You-Know-Who as well, he joined the chase halfway through but vanished pretty quickly. Remus, he can —"
"Fly,” supplied Harry. “I saw him too, he came after Hagrid and me."
"So that’s why he left, to follow you!” said Kingsley. “I couldn’t understand why he’d vanished. But what made him change targets?"
"Harry behaved a little too kindly to Stan Shunpike,"
"Stan?” repeated Hermione. “But I thought he was in Azkaban?"
"Hermione, there’s obviously been a mass breakout which the Ministry has hushed up. Travers’s hood fell off when I cursed him, he’s supposed to be inside too. But what happened to you, Remus? Where’s George?"
"He lost an ear,"
"Lost an — ?"
"Snape’s work,"
"Snape?” shouted Harry. “You didn’t say —"
"He lost his hood during the chase. Sectumsempra was always a speciality of Snape’s. I wish I could say I’d paid him back in kind, but it was all I could do to keep George on the broom after he was injured, he was losing so much blood."
"Harry, give us a hand!"
"How is he?"
"I can’t make it grow back, not when it’s been removed by Dark Magic. But it could have been so much worse. . . . He’s alive."
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Thank God."
"Did I hear someone else in the yard?"
"Hermione and Kingsley,"
"Thank goodness,"
"I’ll prove who I am, Kingsley, after I’ve seen my son, now back off if you know what’s good for you!"
"Arthur!” sobbed Mrs. Weasley. “Oh thank goodness!"
"How is he?"
"How do you feel, Georgie?"
"Saintlike,"
"What’s wrong with him?” croaked Fred, looking terrified. “Is his mind affected?"
"Saintlike,” repeated George, opening his eyes and looking up at his brother. “You see . . . I’m holy. Holey, Fred, geddit?"
"Pathetic,” he told George. “Pathetic! With the whole wide world of ear-related humor before you, you go for holey?"
"Ah well,” said George, grinning at his tear-soaked mother. “You’ll be able to tell us apart now, anyway, Mum."
"Hi, Harry — you are Harry, right?"
"Yeah, I am,"
"Well, at least we got you back okay,” said George. “Why aren’t Ron and Bill huddled round my sickbed?"
"They’re not back yet, George,"
"Ron and Tonks should be back by now. They didn’t have a long journey; Auntie Muriel’s not that far from here."
"It’s them!"
"Remus!"
"You’re okay,"
"I thought — I thought —"
"’M all right,” said Ron, patting her on the back. “’M fine."
"Ron was great,” said Tonks warmly, relinquishing her hold on Lupin. “Wonderful. Stunned one of the Death Eaters, straight to the head, and when you’re aiming at a moving target from a flying broom —"
"You did?"
"Always the tone of surprise,” he said a little grumpily, breaking free. “Are we the last back?"
"No,” said Ginny, “we’re still waiting for Bill and Fleur and Mad-Eye and Mundungus. I’m going to tell Mum and Dad you’re okay, Ron —"
"So what kept you? What happened?"
"Bellatrix,” said Tonks. “She wants me quite as much as she wants Harry, Remus, she tried very hard to kill me. I just wish I’d got her, I owe Bellatrix. But we definitely injured Rodolphus. . . . Then we got to Ron’s Auntie Muriel’s and we’d missed our Portkey and she was fussing over us —"
"So what happened to you lot?"
"I’m going to have to get back to Downing Street, I should have been there an hour ago,” said Kingsley finally, after a last sweeping gaze at the sky. “Let me know when they’re back."
"Thank you,” said Mrs. Weasley, “for our sons."
"Don’t be silly, Molly,"
"How’s George?"
"What’s wrong with him?"
"He’s lost —"
"Bill! Thank God, thank God —"
"Mad-Eye’s dead."
"We saw it,” said Bill; Fleur nodded, tear tracks glittering on her cheeks in the light from the kitchen window. “It happened just after we broke out of the circle: Mad-Eye and Dung were close by us, they were heading north too. Voldemort — he can fly — went straight for them. Dung panicked, I heard him cry out, Mad-Eye tried to stop him, but he Disapparated. Voldemort’s curse hit Mad-Eye full in the face, he fell backward off his broom and — there was nothing we could do, nothing, we had half a dozen of them on our own tail —"
"Of course you couldn’t have done anything,"
"What’s wrong?” said Fred, scanning their faces as they entered. “What’s happened? Who’s — ?"
"Mad-Eye,” said Mr. Weasley. “Dead."
"Here,” he said, and with a wave of his wand he sent twelve full glasses soaring through the room to each of them, holding the thirteenth aloft. “Mad-Eye."
"Mad-Eye,"
"Mad-Eye,"
"So Mundungus disappeared?"
"I know what you’re thinking,” said Bill, “and I wondered that too, on the way back here, because they seemed to be expecting us, didn’t they? But Mundungus can’t have betrayed us. They didn’t know there would be seven Harrys, that confused them the moment we appeared, and in case you’ve forgotten, it was Mundungus who suggested that little bit of skullduggery. Why wouldn’t he have told them the essential point? I think Dung panicked, it’s as simple as that. He didn’t want to come in the first place, but Mad-Eye made him, and You-Know-Who went straight for them. It was enough to make anyone panic."
"You-Know-Who acted exactly as Mad-Eye expected him to,” sniffed Tonks. “Mad-Eye said he’d expect the real Harry to be with the toughest, most skilled Aurors. He chased Mad-Eye first, and when Mundungus gave them away he switched to Kingsley. . . ."
"Yes, and zat eez all very good,” snapped Fleur, “but still eet does not explain ’ow zey knew we were moving ’Arry tonight, does eet? Somebody must ’ave been careless. Somebody let slip ze date to an outsider. It is ze only explanation for zem knowing ze date but not ze ’ole plan."
"No,” Harry said aloud, and they all looked at him, surprised: The firewhisky seemed to have amplified his voice. “I mean . . . if somebody made a mistake,” Harry went on, “and let something slip, I know they didn’t mean to do it. It’s not their fault,” he repeated, again a little louder than he would usually have spoken. “We’ve got to trust each other. I trust all of you, I don’t think anyone in this room would ever sell me to Voldemort."
"Well said, Harry,"
"Yeah, ’ear, ’ear,"
"You think I’m a fool?"
"No, I think you’re like James,” said Lupin, “who would have regarded it as the height of dishonor to mistrust his friends."
"There’s work to do. I can ask Kingsley whether —"
"No,” said Bill at once, “I’ll do it, I’ll come."
"Where are you going?"
"Mad-Eye’s body,” said Lupin. “We need to recover it."
"Can’t it — ?"
"Wait?” said Bill. “Not unless you’d rather the Death Eaters took it?"
"I’ve got to go too,"
"Don’t be silly, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley. “What are you talking about?"
"I can’t stay here."
"You’re all in danger while I’m here. I don’t want —"
"But don’t be so silly!” said Mrs. Weasley. “The whole point of tonight was to get you here safely, and thank goodness it worked. And Fleur’s agreed to get married here rather than in France, we’ve arranged everything so that we can all stay together and look after you —"
"If Voldemort finds out I’m here —"
"But why should he?"
"There are a dozen places you might be now, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley. “He’s got no way of knowing which safe house you’re in."
"It’s not me I’m worried for!"
"We know that,” said Mr. Weasley quietly, “but it would make our efforts tonight seem rather pointless if you left."
"Yer not goin’ anywhere,” growled Hagrid. “Blimey, Harry, after all we wen’ through ter get you here?"
"Yeah, what about my bleeding ear?"
"I know that —"
"Mad-Eye wouldn’t want —"
"I KNOW!"
"Where’s Hedwig, Harry?” she said coaxingly. “We can put her up with Pigwidgeon and give her something to eat."
"Wait till it gets out yeh did it again, Harry,” said Hagrid. “Escaped him, fought him off when he was right on top of yeh!"
"It wasn’t me,” said Harry flatly. “It was my wand. My wand acted of its own accord."
"But that’s impossible, Harry. You mean that you did magic without meaning to; you reacted instinctively."
"No,” said Harry. “The bike was falling, I couldn’t have told you where Voldemort was, but my wand spun in my hand and found him and shot a spell at him, and it wasn’t even a spell I recognized. I’ve never made gold flames appear before."
"Often,” said Mr. Weasley, “when you’re in a pressured situation you can produce magic you never dreamed of. Small children often find, before they’re trained —"
"It wasn’t like that,"
"You told me the problem would be solved by using another’s wand!"
"No! No! I beg you, I beg you. . . ."
"You lied to Lord Voldemort, Ollivander!"
"I did not. . . . I swear I did not. . . ."
"You sought to help Potter, to help him escape me!"
"I swear I did not . . . I believed a different wand would work. . . ."
"Explain, then, what happened. Lucius’s wand is destroyed!"
"I cannot understand . . . The connection . . . exists only . . . between your two wands. . . ."
"Lies!"
"Please . . . I beg you. . . ."
"Harry?"
"Harry, come back in the house,” Hermione whispered. “You aren’t still thinking of leaving?"
"Yeah, you’ve got to stay, mate,"
"Are you all right?” Hermione asked, close enough now to look into Harry’s face. “You look awful!"
"Well,” said Harry shakily, “I probably look better than Ollivander. . . ."
"But it was supposed to have stopped! Your scar — it wasn’t supposed to do this anymore! You mustn’t let that connection open up again — Dumbledore wanted you to close your mind!"
"Harry, he’s taking over the Ministry and the newspapers and half the Wizarding world! Don’t let him inside your head too!"
"Well, you can’t do anything about the” — Ron mouthed the word Horcruxes — “till you’re seventeen. You’ve still got the Trace on you. And we can plan here as well as anywhere, can’t we? Or,” he dropped his voice to a whisper, “d’you reckon you already know where the You-Know-Whats are?"
"No,"
"I think Hermione’s been doing a bit of research,” said Ron. “She said she was saving it for when you got here."
"The Trace’ll break on the thirty-first,” said Harry. “That means I only need to stay here four days. Then I can —"
"Five days,” Ron corrected him firmly. “We’ve got to stay for the wedding. They’ll kill us if we miss it."
"they"
"It’s one extra day,"
"Don’t they realize how important — ?"
"’Course they don’t,” said Ron. “They haven’t got a clue. And now you mention it, I wanted to talk to you about that."
"Mum’s been trying to get it out of Hermione and me. What we’re off to do. She’ll try you next, so brace yourself. Dad and Lupin’ve both asked as well, but when we said Dumbledore told you not to tell anyone except us, they dropped it. Not Mum, though. She’s determined."
"Ron and Hermione seem to think that the three of you are dropping out of Hogwarts,"
"Oh,” said Harry. “Well, yeah. We are."
"May I ask why you are abandoning your education?"
"Well, Dumbledore left me . . . stuff to do,” mumbled Harry. “Ron and Hermione know about it, and they want to come too."
"What sort of ‘stuff’?"
"I’m sorry, I can’t —"
"Well, frankly, I think Arthur and I have a right to know, and I’m sure Mr. and Mrs. Granger would agree!” said Mrs. Weasley. Harry had been afraid of the “concerned parent"
"Dumbledore didn’t want anyone else to know, Mrs. Weasley. I’m sorry. Ron and Hermione don’t have to come, it’s their choice —"
"I don’t see that you have to go either!” she snapped, dropping all pretense now. “You’re barely of age, any of you! It’s utter nonsense, if Dumbledore needed work doing, he had the whole Order at his command! Harry, you must have misunderstood him. Probably he was telling you something he wanted done, and you took it to mean that he wanted you —"
"I didn’t misunderstand,” said Harry flatly. “It’s got to be me."
"And that’s not mine, I don’t support Puddlemere United."
"Oh, of course not,” said Mrs. Weasley with a sudden and rather unnerving return to her casual tone. “I should have realized. Well, Harry, while we’ve still got you here, you won’t mind helping with the preparations for Bill and Fleur’s wedding, will you? There’s still so much to do."
"No — I — of course not,"
"Sweet of you,"
"I think Mum thinks that if she can stop the three of you getting together and planning, she’ll be able to delay you leaving,"
"And then what does she think’s going to happen?” Harry muttered. “Someone else might kill off Voldemort while she’s holding us here making vol-au-vents?"
"So it’s true?” she said. “That’s what you’re trying to do?"
"I — not — I was joking,"
"And as there are around twenty of us, that greatly dilutes the power of the Fidelius Charm. Twenty times as many opportunities for the Death Eaters to get the secret out of somebody. We can’t expect it to hold much longer."
"But surely Snape will have told the Death Eaters the address by now?"
"Well, Mad-Eye set up a couple of curses against Snape in case he turns up there again. We hope they’ll be strong enough both to keep him out and to bind his tongue if he tries to talk about the place, but we can’t be sure. It would have been insane to keep using the place as headquarters now that its protection has become so shaky."
"No news about Mad-Eye?"
"Nothing,"
"The Daily Prophet hasn’t said a word about him dying or about finding the body,” Bill went on. “But that doesn’t mean much. It’s keeping a lot quiet these days."
"And they still haven’t called a hearing about all the underage magic I used escaping the Death Eaters?"
"Because they know I had no choice or because they don’t want me to tell the world Voldemort attacked me?"
"The latter, I think. Scrimgeour doesn’t want to admit that You-Know-Who is as powerful as he is, nor that Azkaban’s seen a mass breakout."
"Yeah, why tell the public the truth?"
"Isn’t anyone at the Ministry prepared to stand up to him?"
"Of course, Ron, but people are terrified,” Mr. Weasley replied, “terrified that they will be next to disappear, their children the next to be attacked! There are nasty rumors going around; I for one don’t believe the Muggle Studies professor at Hogwarts resigned. She hasn’t been seen for weeks now. Meanwhile Scrimgeour remains shut up in his office all day: I just hope he’s working on a plan."
"We must decide ’ow you will be disguised, ’Arry,” said Fleur, once everyone had pudding. “For ze wedding,” she added, when he looked confused. “Of course, none of our guests are Death Eaters, but we cannot guarantee zat zey will not let something slip after zey ’ave ’ad champagne."
"Yes, good point,” said Mrs. Weasley from the top of the table, where she sat, spectacles perched on the end of her nose, scanning an immense list of jobs that she had scribbled on a very long piece of parchment. “Now, Ron, have you cleaned out your room yet?"
"Why?” exclaimed Ron, slamming his spoon down and glaring at his mother. “Why does my room have to be cleaned out? Harry and I are fine with it the way it is!"
"We are holding your brother’s wedding here in a few days’ time, young man —"
"And are they getting married in my bedroom?” asked Ron furiously. “No! So why in the name of Merlin’s saggy left —"
"Don’t talk to your mother like that,” said Mr. Weasley firmly. “And do as you’re told."
"I can help, some of it’s my mess,"
"No, Harry, dear, I’d much rather you helped Arthur muck out the chickens, and Hermione, I’d be ever so grateful if you’d change the sheets for Monsieur and Madame Delacour; you know they’re arriving at eleven tomorrow morning."
"There’s no need to, er, mention it to Molly,” Mr. Weasley told Harry, blocking his access to the coop, “but, er, Ted Tonks sent me most of what was left of Sirius’s bike and, er, I’m hiding — that’s to say, keeping — it in here. Fantastic stuff: There’s an exhaust gaskin, as I believe it’s called, the most magnificent battery, and it’ll be a great opportunity to find out how brakes work. I’m going to try and put it all back together again when Molly’s not — I mean, when I’ve got time."
"I’m doing it, I’m doing — ! Oh, it’s you,"
"Hi, Harry,"
"And how did you manage to get away?"
"Oh, Ron’s mum forgot that she asked Ginny and me to change the sheets yesterday,"
"We were just talking about Mad-Eye,” Ron told Harry. “I reckon he might have survived."
"But Bill saw him hit by the Killing Curse,"
"Yeah, but Bill was under attack too,” said Ron. “How can he be sure what he saw?"
"Even if the Killing Curse missed, Mad-Eye still fell about a thousand feet,"
"He could have used a Shield Charm —"
"Fleur said his wand was blasted out of his hand,"
"Well, all right, if you want him to be dead,"
"Of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said Hermione, looking shocked. “It’s dreadful that he’s dead! But we’re being realistic!"
"The Death Eaters probably tidied up after themselves, that’s why no one’s found him,"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “Like Barty Crouch, turned into a bone and buried in Hagrid’s front garden. They probably transfigured Moody and stuffed him —"
"Don’t!"
"Oh no,” said Harry, struggling to get up from the old camp bed. “Hermione, I wasn’t trying to upset —"
"Tergeo."
"Oh . . . thanks, Ron. . . . I’m sorry. . . .” She blew her nose and hiccuped. “It’s just so awf-ful, isn’t it? R-right after Dumbledore . . . I j-just n-never imagined Mad-Eye dying, somehow, he seemed so tough!"
"Yeah, I know,” said Ron, giving her a squeeze. “But you know what he’d say to us if he was here?"
"‘C-constant vigilance,’"
"That’s right,” said Ron, nodding. “He’d tell us to learn from what happened to him. And what I’ve learned is not to trust that cowardly little squit, Mundungus."
"I’m sorry, I’m sorry!"
"What are you doing with all those books anyway?"
"Just trying to decide which ones to take with us,” said Hermione. “When we’re looking for the Horcruxes."
"Oh, of course,” said Ron, clapping a hand to his forehead. “I forgot we’ll be hunting down Voldemort in a mobile library."
"Ha ha,” said Hermione, looking down at Spellman’s Syllabary. “I wonder . . . will we need to translate runes? It’s possible. . . . I think we’d better take it, to be safe."
"Listen,"
"I know you said after Dumbledore’s funeral that you wanted to come with me,"
"Here he goes,"
"As we knew he would,” she sighed, turning back to the books. “You know, I think I will take Hogwarts: A History. Even if we’re not going back there, I don’t think I’d feel right if I didn’t have it with —"
"Listen!"
"No, Harry, you listen,” said Hermione. “We’re coming with you. That was decided months ago — years, really."
"But —"
"Shut up,"
"— are you sure you’ve thought this through?"
"Let’s see,"
"Assuming I survive our hunt for the Horcruxes, I’ll find Mum and Dad and lift the enchantment. If I don’t — well, I think I’ve cast a good enough charm to keep them safe and happy. Wendell and Monica Wilkins don’t know that they’ve got a daughter, you see."
"I — Hermione, I’m sorry — I didn’t —"
"Didn’t realize that Ron and I know perfectly well what might happen if we come with you? Well, we do. Ron, show Harry what you’ve done."
"Nah, he’s just eaten,"
"Go on, he needs to know!"
"Oh, all right. Harry, come here."
"C’mon."
"Why?"
"Descendo,"
"That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?"
"Yeah, it is,” said Ron, climbing the ladder. “Come and have a look at him."
"But it . . . it looks . . . do ghouls normally wear pajamas?"
"No,” said Ron. “Nor have they usually got red hair or that number of pustules."
"He’s me, see?"
"No,” said Harry. “I don’t."
"I’ll explain it back in my room, the smell’s getting to me,"
"Once we’ve left, the ghoul’s going to come and live down here in my room,” said Ron. “I think he’s really looking forward to it — well, it’s hard to tell, because all he can do is moan and drool — but he nods a lot when you mention it. Anyway, he’s going to be me with spattergroit. Good, eh?"
"It is!” said Ron, clearly frustrated that Harry had not grasped the brilliance of the plan. “Look, when we three don’t turn up at Hogwarts again, everyone’s going to think Hermione and I must be with you, right? Which means the Death Eaters will go straight for our families to see if they’ve got information on where you are."
"But hopefully it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum and Dad; a lot of Muggle-borns are talking about going into hiding at the moment,"
"We can’t hide my whole family, it’ll look too fishy and they can’t all leave their jobs,” said Ron. “So we’re going to put out the story that I’m seriously ill with spattergroit, which is why I can’t go back to school. If anyone comes calling to investigate, Mum or Dad can show them the ghoul in my bed, covered in pustules. Spattergroit’s really contagious, so they’re not going to want to go near him. It won’t matter that he can’t say anything, either, because apparently you can’t once the fungus has spread to your uvula."
"And your mum and dad are in on this plan?"
"Dad is. He helped Fred and George transform the ghoul. Mum . . . well, you’ve seen what she’s like. She won’t accept we’re going till we’ve gone."
"Ginny’s probably left a speck of dust on a poxy napkin ring,” said Ron. “I dunno why the Delacours have got to come two days before the wedding."
"Fleur’s sister’s a bridesmaid, she needs to be here for the rehearsal, and she’s too young to come on her own,"
"Well, guests aren’t going to help Mum’s stress levels,"
"What we really need to decide,” said Hermione, tossing Defensive Magical Theory into the bin without a second glance and picking up An Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe, “is where we’re going after we leave here. I know you said you wanted to go to Godric’s Hollow first, Harry, and I understand why, but . . . well . . . shouldn’t we make the Horcruxes our priority?"
"If we knew where any of the Horcruxes were, I’d agree with you,"
"Don’t you think there’s a possibility that Voldemort’s keeping a watch on Godric’s Hollow?” Hermione asked. “He might expect you to go back and visit your parents’ graves once you’re free to go wherever you like?"
"This R.A.B. person,” he said. “You know, the one who stole the real locket?"
"He said in his note he was going to destroy it, didn’t he?"
"‘I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy it as soon as I can,’"
"Well, what if he did finish it off?"
"Or she,"
"Whichever,” said Ron, “it’d be one less for us to do!"
"Yes, but we’re still going to have to try and trace the real locket, aren’t we?” said Hermione, “to find out whether or not it’s destroyed."
"And once we get hold of it, how do you destroy a Horcrux?"
"Well,” said Hermione, “I’ve been researching that."
"How?” asked Harry. “I didn’t think there were any books on Horcruxes in the library?"
"There weren’t,” said Hermione, who had turned pink. “Dumbledore removed them all, but he — he didn’t destroy them."
"How in the name of Merlin’s pants have you managed to get your hands on those Horcrux books?"
"It — it wasn’t stealing!” said Hermione, looking from Harry to Ron with a kind of desperation. “They were still library books, even if Dumbledore had taken them off the shelves. Anyway, if he really didn’t want anyone to get at them, I’m sure he would have made it much harder to —"
"Get to the point!"
"Well . . . it was easy,” said Hermione in a small voice. “I just did a Summoning Charm. You know — Accio. And — they zoomed out of Dumbledore’s study window right into the girls’ dormitory."
"But when did you do this?"
"Just after his — Dumbledore’s — funeral,” said Hermione in an even smaller voice. “Right after we agreed we’d leave school and go and look for the Horcruxes. When I went back upstairs to get my things it — it just occurred to me that the more we knew about them, the better it would be . . . and I was alone in there . . . so I tried . . . and it worked. They flew straight in through the open window and I — I packed them."
"I can’t believe Dumbledore would have been angry, it’s not as though we’re going to use the information to make a Horcrux, is it?"
"Can you hear us complaining?” said Ron. “Where are these books anyway?"
"This is the one that gives explicit instructions on how to make a Horcrux. Secrets of the Darkest Art — it’s a horrible book, really awful, full of evil magic. I wonder when Dumbledore removed it from the library. . . . If he didn’t do it until he was headmaster, I bet Voldemort got all the instruction he needed from here."
"Why did he have to ask Slughorn how to make a Horcrux, then, if he’d already read that?"
"He only approached Slughorn to find out what would happen if you split your soul into seven,” said Harry. “Dumbledore was sure Riddle already knew how to make a Horcrux by the time he asked Slughorn about them. I think you’re right, Hermione, that could easily have been where he got the information."
"And the more I’ve read about them,” said Hermione, “the more horrible they seem, and the less I can believe that he actually made six. It warns in this book how unstable you make the rest of your soul by ripping it, and that’s just by making one Horcrux!"
"usual evil."
"Isn’t there any way of putting yourself back together?"
"Yes,” said Hermione with a hollow smile, “but it would be excruciatingly painful."
"Why? How do you do it?"
"Remorse,” said Hermione. “You’ve got to really feel what you’ve done. There’s a footnote. Apparently the pain of it can destroy you. I can’t see Voldemort attempting it somehow, can you?"
"No,” said Ron, before Harry could answer. “So does it say how to destroy Horcruxes in that book?"
"Yes,” said Hermione, now turning the fragile pages as if examining rotting entrails, “because it warns Dark wizards how strong they have to make the enchantments on them. From all that I’ve read, what Harry did to Riddle’s diary was one of the few really foolproof ways of destroying a Horcrux."
"What, stabbing it with a basilisk fang?"
"Oh well, lucky we’ve got such a large supply of basilisk fangs, then,” said Ron. “I was wondering what we were going to do with them."
"It doesn’t have to be a basilisk fang,” said Hermione patiently. “It has to be something so destructive that the Horcrux can’t repair itself. Basilisk venom only has one antidote, and it’s incredibly rare —"
"— phoenix tears,"
"Exactly,” said Hermione. “Our problem is that there are very few substances as destructive as basilisk venom, and they’re all dangerous to carry around with you. That’s a problem we’re going to have to solve, though, because ripping, smashing, or crushing a Horcrux won’t do the trick. You’ve got to put it beyond magical repair."
"But even if we wreck the thing it lives in,” said Ron, “why can’t the bit of soul in it just go and live in something else?"
"Because a Horcrux is the complete opposite of a human being."
"Look, if I picked up a sword right now, Ron, and ran you through with it, I wouldn’t damage your soul at all."
"Which would be a real comfort to me, I’m sure,"
"It should be, actually! But my point is that whatever happens to your body, your soul will survive, untouched,” said Hermione. “But it’s the other way round with a Horcrux. The fragment of soul inside it depends on its container, its enchanted body, for survival. It can’t exist without it."
"That diary sort of died when I stabbed it,"
"And once the diary was properly destroyed, the bit of soul trapped in it could no longer exist. Ginny tried to get rid of the diary before you did, flushing it away, but obviously it came back good as new."
"Hang on,” said Ron, frowning. “The bit of soul in that diary was possessing Ginny, wasn’t it? How does that work, then?"
"While the magical container is still intact, the bit of soul inside it can flit in and out of someone if they get too close to the object. I don’t mean holding it for too long, it’s nothing to do with touching it,” she added before Ron could speak. “I mean close emotionally. Ginny poured her heart out into that diary, she made herself incredibly vulnerable. You’re in trouble if you get too fond of or dependent on the Horcrux."
"I wonder how Dumbledore destroyed the ring?” said Harry. “Why didn’t I ask him? I never really . . ."
"I’m so sorry to break up this cozy little gathering,” she said, her voice trembling. “I’m sure you all need your rest . . . but there are wedding presents stacked in my room that need sorting out and I was under the impression that you had agreed to help."
"Oh yes,” said Hermione, looking terrified as she leapt to her feet, sending books flying in every direction, “we will . . . we’re sorry . . ."
"It’s like being a house-elf,” complained Ron in an undertone, still massaging his head as he and Harry followed. “Except without the job satisfaction. The sooner this wedding’s over, the happier I’ll be."
"Yeah,” said Harry, “then we’ll have nothing to do except find Horcruxes. . . . It’ll be like a holiday, won’t it?"
"Maman!” cried Fleur, rushing forward to embrace her. “Papa!"
"You ’ave been to much trouble,” he said in a deep voice. “Fleur tells us you ’ave been working very ’ard."
"Oh, it’s been nothing, nothing!” trilled Mrs. Weasley. “No trouble at all!"
"Dear lady!” said Monsieur Delacour, still holding Mrs. Weasley’s hand between his own two plump ones and beaming. “We are most honored at the approaching union of our two families! Let me present my wife, Apolline."
"Enchantée,” she said. “Your ’usband ’as been telling us such amusing stories!"
"And, of course, you ’ave met my leetle daughter, Gabrielle!"
"Well, come in, do!” said Mrs. Weasley brightly, and she ushered the Delacours into the house, with many “No, please!”s and “After you!”s and “Not at all!"
"Charmant!"
"But she still won’t leave us alone!"
"Oh, good, you’ve fed the chickens,” she called as she approached them. “We’d better shut them away again before the men arrive tomorrow . . . to put up the tent for the wedding,” she explained, pausing to lean against the henhouse. She looked exhausted. “Millamant’s Magic Marquees . . . they’re very good, Bill’s escorting them. . . . You’d better stay inside while they’re here, Harry. I must say it does complicate organizing a wedding, having all these security spells around the place."
"I’m sorry,"
"Oh, don’t be silly, dear!” said Mrs. Weasley at once. “I didn’t mean — well, your safety’s much more important! Actually, I’ve been wanting to ask you how you want to celebrate your birthday, Harry. Seventeen, after all, it’s an important day. . . ."
"I don’t want a fuss,” said Harry quickly, envisaging the additional strain this would put on them all. “Really, Mrs. Weasley, just a normal dinner would be fine. . . . It’s the day before the wedding. . . ."
"Oh, well, if you’re sure, dear. I’ll invite Remus and Tonks, shall I? And how about Hagrid?"
"That’d be great,” said Harry. “But please don’t go to loads of trouble."
"Not at all, not at all . . . It’s no trouble. . . ."
"Oi, wake up."
"You were muttering in your sleep."
"Was I?"
"Yeah. ‘Gregorovitch.’ You kept saying ‘Gregorovitch.’"
"Who’s Gregorovitch?"
"I dunno, do I? You were the one saying it."
"I think Voldemort’s looking for him."
"Poor bloke,"
"I think he’s abroad."
"Who, Gregorovitch?"
"Voldemort. I think he’s somewhere abroad, looking for Gregorovitch. It didn’t look like anywhere in Britain."
"You reckon you were seeing into his mind again?"
"Do me a favor and don’t tell Hermione,” said Harry. “Although how she expects me to stop seeing stuff in my sleep . . ."
"Gregorovitch"
"I think,” he said slowly, “he’s got something to do with Quidditch. There’s some connection, but I can’t — I can’t think what it is."
"Quidditch?” said Ron. “Sure you’re not thinking of Gorgovitch?"
"Who?"
"Dragomir Gorgovitch, Chaser, transferred to the Chudley Cannons for a record fee two years ago. Record holder for most Quaffle drops in a season."
"No,” said Harry. “I’m definitely not thinking of Gorgovitch."
"I try not to either,” said Ron. “Well, happy birthday anyway."
"Wow — that’s right, I forgot! I’m seventeen!"
"Accio Glasses!"
"Slick,"
"I’d do your fly by hand, though,” Ron advised Harry, sniggering when Harry immediately checked it. “Here’s your present. Unwrap it up here, it’s not for my mother’s eyes."
"A book?” said Harry as he took the rectangular parcel. “Bit of a departure from tradition, isn’t it?"
"This isn’t your average book,” said Ron. “It’s pure gold: Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches. Explains everything you need to know about girls. If only I’d had this last year I’d have known exactly how to get rid of Lavender and I would’ve known how to get going with . . . Well, Fred and George gave me a copy, and I’ve learned a lot. You’d be surprised, it’s not all about wandwork, either."
"Arthur told me to wish you a happy seventeenth, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley, beaming at him. “He had to leave early for work, but he’ll be back for dinner. That’s our present on top."
"It’s traditional to give a wizard a watch when he comes of age,” said Mrs. Weasley, watching him anxiously from beside the cooker. “I’m afraid that one isn’t new like Ron’s, it was actually my brother Fabian’s and he wasn’t terribly careful with his possessions, it’s a bit dented on the back, but —"
"Happy birthday, Harry!” said Hermione, hurrying into the kitchen and adding her own present to the top of the pile. “It’s not much, but I hope you like it. What did you get him?"
"Come on, then, open Hermione’s!"
"Ah yes, zis will give you ze smoothest shave you will ever ’ave,” Monsieur Delacour assured him, “but you must tell it clearly what you want . . . ozzerwise you might find you ’ave a leetle less hair zan you would like. . . ."
"I’ll pack these for you,” Hermione said brightly, taking Harry’s presents out of his arms as the three of them headed back upstairs. “I’m nearly done, I’m just waiting for the rest of your underpants to come out of the wash, Ron —"
"Harry, will you come in here a moment?"
"Happy seventeenth."
"Yeah . . . thanks."
"Nice view,"
"I couldn’t think what to get you,"
"You didn’t have to get me anything."
"I didn’t know what would be useful. Nothing too big, because you wouldn’t be able to take it with you."
"So then I thought, I’d like you to have something to remember me by, you know, if you meet some veela when you’re off doing whatever you’re doing."
"I think dating opportunities are going to be pretty thin on the ground, to be honest."
"There’s the silver lining I’ve been looking for,"
"Oh,” said Ron pointedly. “Sorry."
"Ron!"
"Well, happy birthday anyway, Harry."
"I’ll see you later,"
"You ditched her. What are you doing now, messing her around?"
"I’m not messing her around,"
"Ron —"
"She was really cut up when you ended it —"
"So was I. You know why I stopped it, and it wasn’t because I wanted to."
"Yeah, but you go snogging her now and she’s just going to get her hopes up again —"
"She’s not an idiot, she knows it can’t happen, she’s not expecting us to — to end up married, or —"
"If you keep groping her every chance you get —"
"It won’t happen again,” said Harry harshly. The day was cloudless, but he felt as though the sun had gone in. “Okay?"
"Right then, well, that’s . . . yeah."
"Nice,” said Ron, as with one final flourish of her wand, Hermione turned the leaves on the crabapple tree to gold. “You’ve really got an eye for that sort of thing."
"Thank you, Ron!"
"Out of the way, out of the way!"
"That looks amazing, Mrs. Weasley."
"Oh, it’s nothing, dear,"
"Happy birthday, Harry,"
"Seventeen, eh!” said Hagrid as he accepted a bucket-sized glass of wine from Fred. “Six years ter the day since we met, Harry, d’yeh remember it?"
"Vaguely,” said Harry, grinning up at him. “Didn’t you smash down the front door, give Dudley a pig’s tail, and tell me I was a wizard?"
"I forge’ the details,” Hagrid chortled. “All righ’, Ron, Hermione?"
"We’re fine,” said Hermione. “How are you?"
"Ar, not bad. Bin busy, we got some newborn unicorns, I’ll show yeh when yeh get back —” Harry avoided Ron’s and Hermione’s gazes as Hagrid rummaged in his pocket. “Here, Harry — couldn’ think what ter get yeh, but then I remembered this.” He pulled out a small, slightly furry drawstring pouch with a long string, evidently intended to be worn around the neck. “Mokeskin. Hide anythin’ in there an’ no one but the owner can get it out. They’re rare, them."
"Hagrid, thanks!"
"’S’nothin’,” said Hagrid with a wave of a dustbin-lid-sized hand. “An’ there’s Charlie! Always liked him — hey! Charlie!"
"Hi, Hagrid, how’s it going?"
"Bin meanin’ ter write fer ages. How’s Norbert doin’?"
"Norbert?” Charlie laughed. “The Norwegian Ridgeback? We call her Norberta now."
"Wha — Norbert’s a girl?"
"Oh yeah,"
"How can you tell?"
"They’re a lot more vicious,” said Charlie. He looked over his shoulder and dropped his voice. “Wish Dad would hurry up and get here. Mum’s getting edgy."
"I think we’d better start without Arthur,” she called to the garden at large after a moment or two. “He must have been held up at — oh!"
"Minister of Magic coming with me."
"We shouldn’t be here,” said Lupin at once. “Harry — I’m sorry — I’ll explain another time —"
"The Minister — but why — ? I don’t understand —"
"Sorry to intrude,” said Scrimgeour, as he limped to a halt before the table. “Especially as I can see that I am gate-crashing a party."
"Many happy returns."
"Thanks,"
"I require a private word with you,” Scrimgeour went on. “Also with Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger."
"Us?” said Ron, sounding surprised. “Why us?"
"I shall tell you that when we are somewhere more private,” said Scrimgeour. “Is there such a place?"
"Yes, of course,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked nervous. “The, er, sitting room, why don’t you use that?"
"You can lead the way,” Scrimgeour said to Ron. “There will be no need for you to accompany us, Arthur."
"I have some questions for the three of you, and I think it will be best if we do it individually. If you two” — he pointed at Harry and Hermione — “can wait upstairs, I will start with Ronald."
"We’re not going anywhere,” said Harry, while Hermione nodded vigorously. “You can speak to us together, or not at all."
"Very well then, together,” he said, shrugging. He cleared his throat. “I am here, as I’m sure you know, because of Albus Dumbledore’s will."
"A surprise, apparently! You were not aware then that Dumbledore had left you anything?"
"A-all of us?” said Ron. “Me and Hermione too?"
"Yes, all of —"
"Dumbledore died over a month ago. Why has it taken this long to give us what he left us?"
"Isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione, before Scrimgeour could answer. “They wanted to examine whatever he’s left us. You had no right to do that!"
"I had every right,” said Scrimgeour dismissively. “The Decree for Justifiable Confiscation gives the Ministry the power to confiscate the contents of a will —"
"That law was created to stop wizards passing on Dark artifacts,” said Hermione, “and the Ministry is supposed to have powerful evidence that the deceased’s possessions are illegal before seizing them! Are you telling me that you thought Dumbledore was trying to pass us something cursed?"
"Are you planning to follow a career in Magical Law, Miss Granger?"
"No, I’m not,” retorted Hermione. “I’m hoping to do some good in the world!"
"So why have you decided to let us have our things now? Can’t think of a pretext to keep them?"
"No, it’ll be because the thirty-one days are up,” said Hermione at once. “They can’t keep the objects longer than that unless they can prove they’re dangerous. Right?"
"Would you say you were close to Dumbledore, Ronald?"
"Me? Not — not really . . . It was always Harry who . . ."
"If you were not very close to Dumbledore, how do you account for the fact that he remembered you in his will? He made exceptionally few personal bequests. The vast majority of his possessions — his private library, his magical instruments, and other personal effects — were left to Hogwarts. Why do you think you were singled out?"
"I . . . dunno,” said Ron. “I . . . when I say we weren’t close . . . I mean, I think he liked me. . . ."
"You’re being modest, Ron,” said Hermione. “Dumbledore was very fond of you."
"‘The Last Will and Testament of Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore’ . . . Yes, here we are . . . ‘To Ronald Bilius Weasley, I leave my Deluminator, in the hope that he will remember me when he uses it.’"
"That is a valuable object,” said Scrimgeour, watching Ron. “It may even be unique. Certainly it is of Dumbledore’s own design. Why would he have left you an item so rare?"
"Dumbledore must have taught thousands of students,” Scrimgeour persevered. “Yet the only ones he remembered in his will are you three. Why is that? To what use did he think you would put his Deluminator, Mr. Weasley?"
"Put out lights, I s’pose,” mumbled Ron. “What else could I do with it?"
"‘To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I leave my copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, in the hope that she will find it entertaining and instructive.’"
"Why do you think Dumbledore left you that book, Miss Granger?"
"He . . . he knew I liked books,"
"But why that particular book?"
"I don’t know. He must have thought I’d enjoy it."
"Did you ever discuss codes, or any means of passing secret messages, with Dumbledore?"
"No, I didn’t,” said Hermione, still wiping her eyes on her sleeve. “And if the Ministry hasn’t found any hidden codes in this book in thirty-one days, I doubt that I will."
"‘To Harry James Potter,’” he read, and Harry’s insides contracted with a sudden excitement, “‘I leave the Snitch he caught in his first Quidditch match at Hogwarts, as a reminder of the rewards of perseverance and skill.’"
"Why did Dumbledore leave you this Snitch?"
"No idea,” said Harry. “For the reasons you just read out, I suppose . . . to remind me what you can get if you . . . persevere and whatever it was."
"You think this a mere symbolic keepsake, then?"
"I suppose so,” said Harry. “What else could it be?"
"I’m asking the questions,"
"I notice that your birthday cake is in the shape of a Snitch,” Scrimgeour said to Harry. “Why is that?"
"Oh, it can’t be a reference to the fact Harry’s a great Seeker, that’s way too obvious,” she said. “There must be a secret message from Dumbledore hidden in the icing!"
"I don’t think there’s anything hidden in the icing,” said Scrimgeour, “but a Snitch would be a very good hiding place for a small object. You know why, I’m sure?"
"Because Snitches have flesh memories,"
"What?"
"Correct,” said Scrimgeour. “A Snitch is not touched by bare skin before it is released, not even by the maker, who wears gloves. It carries an enchantment by which it can identify the first human to lay hands upon it, in case of a disputed capture. This Snitch” — he held up the tiny golden ball — “will remember your touch, Potter. It occurs to me that Dumbledore, who had prodigious magical skill, whatever his other faults, might have enchanted this Snitch so that it will open only for you."
"You don’t say anything,” said Scrimgeour. “Perhaps you already know what the Snitch contains?"
"No,"
"Take it,"
"That was dramatic,"
"That’s all, then, is it?"
"Not quite,” said Scrimgeour, who looked bad-tempered now. “Dumbledore left you a second bequest, Potter."
"What is it?"
"The sword of Godric Gryffindor,"
"So where is it?"
"Unfortunately,” said Scrimgeour, “that sword was not Dumbledore’s to give away. The sword of Godric Gryffindor is an important historical artifact, and as such, belongs —"
"It belongs to Harry!” said Hermione hotly. “It chose him, he was the one who found it, it came to him out of the Sorting Hat —"
"According to reliable historical sources, the sword may present itself to any worthy Gryffindor,” said Scrimgeour. “That does not make it the exclusive property of Mr. Potter, whatever Dumbledore may have decided.” Scrimgeour scratched his badly shaven cheek, scrutinizing Harry. “Why do you think — ?"
"— Dumbledore wanted to give me the sword?” said Harry, struggling to keep his temper. “Maybe he thought it would look nice on my wall."
"This is not a joke, Potter!” growled Scrimgeour. “Was it because Dumbledore believed that only the sword of Godric Gryffindor could defeat the Heir of Slytherin? Did he wish to give you that sword, Potter, because he believed, as do many, that you are the one destined to destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"
"Interesting theory,” said Harry. “Has anyone ever tried sticking a sword in Voldemort? Maybe the Ministry should put some people onto that, instead of wasting their time stripping down Deluminators or covering up breakouts from Azkaban. So is this what you’ve been doing, Minister, shut up in your office, trying to break open a Snitch? People are dying — I was nearly one of them — Voldemort chased me across three counties, he killed Mad-Eye Moody, but there’s been no word about any of that from the Ministry, has there? And you still expect us to cooperate with you!"
"You go too far!"
"Oi!"
"No! D’you want to give him an excuse to arrest us?"
"Remembered you’re not at school, have you?” said Scrimgeour, breathing hard into Harry’s face. “Remembered that I am not Dumbledore, who forgave your insolence and insubordination? You may wear that scar like a crown, Potter, but it is not up to a seventeen-year-old boy to tell me how to do my job! It’s time you learned some respect!"
"It’s time you earned it,"
"We — we thought we heard —"
"— raised voices,"
"It — it was nothing,” he growled. “I . . . regret your attitude,” he said, looking Harry full in the face once more. “You seem to think that the Ministry does not desire what you — what Dumbledore — desired. We ought to be working together."
"I don’t like your methods, Minister,” said Harry. “Remember?"
"He’s gone!"
"What did he want?"
"To give us what Dumbledore left us,” said Harry. “They’ve only just released the contents of his will."
"Harry, dear, everyone’s awfully hungry, we didn’t like to start without you. . . . Shall I serve dinner now?"
"Happy Birthday"
"Meet us upstairs,” Harry whispered to Hermione, while they helped Mrs. Weasley restore the garden to its normal state. “After everyone’s gone to bed."
"Muffliato,"
"Thought you didn’t approve of that spell?"
"Times change,” said Hermione. “Now, show us that Deluminator."
"The thing is,” whispered Hermione through the dark, “we could have achieved that with Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder."
"Still, it’s cool,” said Ron, a little defensively. “And from what they said, Dumbledore invented it himself!"
"I know, but surely he wouldn’t have singled you out in his will just to help us turn out the lights!"
"D’you think he knew the Ministry would confiscate his will and examine everything he’d left us?"
"Definitely,” said Hermione. “He couldn’t tell us in the will why he was leaving us these things, but that still doesn’t explain . . ."
". . . why he couldn’t have given us a hint when he was alive?"
"Well, exactly,” said Hermione, now flicking through The Tales of Beedle the Bard. “If these things are important enough to pass on right under the nose of the Ministry, you’d think he’d have let us know why . . . unless he thought it was obvious?"
"Thought wrong, then, didn’t he?” said Ron. “I always said he was mental. Brilliant and everything, but cracked. Leaving Harry an old Snitch — what the hell was that about?"
"I’ve no idea,” said Hermione. “When Scrimgeour made you take it, Harry, I was so sure that something was going to happen!"
"Yeah, well,” said Harry, his pulse quickening as he raised the Snitch in his fingers. “I wasn’t going to try too hard in front of Scrimgeour, was I?"
"What do you mean?"
"The Snitch I caught in my first ever Quidditch match?” said Harry. “Don’t you remember?"
"That was the one you nearly swallowed!"
"Exactly,"
"Writing! There’s writing on it, quick, look!"
"‘I open at the close . . .’ What’s that supposed to mean?"
"I open at the close . . . at the close . . . I open at the close . . ."
"And the sword,” said Ron finally, when they had at last abandoned their attempts to divine meaning in the Snitch’s inscription. “Why did he want Harry to have the sword?"
"And why couldn’t he just have told me?” Harry said quietly. “It was there, it was right there on the wall of his office during all our talks last year! If he wanted me to have it, why didn’t he just give it to me then?"
"And as for this book,” said Hermione, “The Tales of Beedle the Bard . . . I’ve never even heard of them!"
"You’ve never heard of The Tales of Beedle the Bard?” said Ron incredulously. “You’re kidding, right?"
"No, I’m not!” said Hermione in surprise. “Do you know them, then?"
"Well, of course I do!"
"Oh come on! All the old kids’ stories are supposed to be Beedle’s, aren’t they? ‘The Fountain of Fair Fortune’ . . . ‘The Wizard and the Hopping Pot’ . . . ‘Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump’ . . ."
"Excuse me?” said Hermione, giggling. “What was that last one?"
"Come off it!” said Ron, looking in disbelief from Harry to Hermione. “You must’ve heard of Babbitty Rabbitty —"
"Ron, you know full well Harry and I were brought up by Muggles!” said Hermione. “We didn’t hear stories like that when we were little, we heard ‘Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs’ and ‘Cinderella’ —"
"What’s that, an illness?"
"So these are children’s stories?"
"Yeah,” said Ron uncertainly, “I mean, that’s just what you hear, you know, that all these old stories came from Beedle. I dunno what they’re like in the original versions."
"But I wonder why Dumbledore thought I should read them?"
"Probably just Charlie, now Mum’s asleep, sneaking off to regrow his hair,"
"All the same, we should get to bed,” whispered Hermione. “It wouldn’t do to oversleep tomorrow."
"No,” agreed Ron. “A brutal triple murder by the bridegroom’s mother might put a bit of a damper on the wedding. I’ll get the lights."
"Cousin Barny"
"When I get married,” said Fred, tugging at the collar of his own robes, “I won’t be bothering with any of this nonsense. You can all wear what you like, and I’ll put a full Body-Bind Curse on Mum until it’s all over."
"She wasn’t too bad this morning, considering,” said George. “Cried a bit about Percy not being here, but who wants him? Oh blimey, brace yourselves — here they come, look."
"Excellent, I think I see a few veela cousins,” said George, craning his neck for a better look. “They’ll need help understanding our English customs, I’ll look after them. . . ."
"Not so fast, Your Holeyness,” said Fred, and darting past the gaggle of middle-aged witches heading the procession, he said, “Here — permettez-moi to assister vous,"
"Wotcher,” said a familiar voice as he came out of the marquee again and found Tonks and Lupin at the front of the queue. She had turned blonde for the occasion. “Arthur told us you were the one with the curly hair. Sorry about last night,” she added in a whisper as Harry led them up the aisle. “The Ministry’s being very anti-werewolf at the moment and we thought our presence might not do you any favors."
"It’s fine, I understand,"
"Xenophilius Lovegood,” he said, extending a hand to Harry, “my daughter and I live just over the hill, so kind of the good Weasleys to invite us. But I think you know my Luna?"
"Yes,” said Ron. “Isn’t she with you?"
"She lingered in that charming little garden to say hello to the gnomes, such a glorious infestation! How few wizards realize just how much we can learn from the wise little gnomes — or, to give them their correct name, the Gernumbli gardensi."
"Ours do know a lot of excellent swear words,” said Ron, “but I think Fred and George taught them those."
"Hello, Harry!"
"Er — my name’s Barny,"
"Oh, have you changed that too?"
"How did you know — ?"
"Oh, just your expression,"
"Daddy, look — one of the gnomes actually bit me!"
"How wonderful! Gnome saliva is enormously beneficial!” said Mr. Lovegood, seizing Luna’s outstretched finger and examining the bleeding puncture marks. “Luna, my love, if you should feel any burgeoning talent today — perhaps an unexpected urge to sing opera or to declaim in Mermish — do not repress it! You may have been gifted by the Gernumblies!"
"Ron can laugh,” said Luna serenely as Harry led her and Xenophilius toward their seats, “but my father has done a lot of research on Gernumbli magic."
"Really?” said Harry, who had long since decided not to challenge Luna or her father’s peculiar views. “Are you sure you don’t want to put anything on that bite, though?"
"Oh, it’s fine,” said Luna, sucking her finger in a dreamy fashion and looking Harry up and down. “You look smart. I told Daddy most people would probably wear dress robes, but he believes you ought to wear sun colors to a wedding, for luck, you know."
". . . and your hair’s much too long, Ronald, for a moment I thought you were Ginevra. Merlin’s beard, what is Xenophilius Lovegood wearing? He looks like an omelet. And who are you?"
"Oh yeah, Auntie Muriel, this is our cousin Barny."
"Another Weasley? You breed like gnomes. Isn’t Harry Potter here? I was hoping to meet him. I thought he was a friend of yours, Ronald, or have you merely been boasting?"
"No — he couldn’t come —"
"Hmm. Made an excuse, did he? Not as gormless as he looks in press photographs, then. I’ve just been instructing the bride on how best to wear my tiara,” she shouted at Harry. “Goblin-made, you know, and been in my family for centuries. She’s a good-looking girl, but still — French. Well, well, find me a good seat, Ronald, I am a hundred and seven and I ought not to be on my feet too long."
"Nightmare, Muriel is,” said Ron, mopping his forehead on his sleeve. “She used to come for Christmas every year, then, thank God, she took offense because Fred and George set off a Dungbomb under her chair at dinner. Dad always says she’ll have written them out of her will — like they care, they’re going to end up richer than anyone in the family, rate they’re going. . . . Wow,” he added, blinking rather rapidly as Hermione came hurrying toward them. “You look great!"
"Always the tone of surprise,” said Hermione, though she smiled. She was wearing a floaty, lilac-colored dress with matching high heels; her hair was sleek and shiny. “Your Great-Aunt Muriel doesn’t agree, I just met her upstairs while she was giving Fleur the tiara. She said, ‘Oh dear, is this the Muggle-born?’ and then, ‘Bad posture and skinny ankles.’"
"Don’t take it personally, she’s rude to everyone,"
"Talking about Muriel?” inquired George, reemerging from the marquee with Fred. “Yeah, she’s just told me my ears are lopsided. Old bat. I wish old Uncle Bilius was still with us, though; he was a right laugh at weddings."
"Wasn’t he the one who saw a Grim and died twenty-four hours later?"
"Well, yeah, he went a bit odd toward the end,"
"But before he went loopy he was the life and soul of the party,” said Fred. “He used to down an entire bottle of firewhisky, then run onto the dance floor, hoist up his robes, and start pulling bunches of flowers out of his —"
"Yes, he sounds a real charmer,"
"Never married, for some reason,"
"You amaze me,"
"You look vunderful."
"Viktor!” she shrieked, and dropped her small beaded bag, which made a loud thump quite disproportionate to its size. As she scrambled, blushing, to pick it up, she said, “I didn’t know you were — goodness — it’s lovely to see — how are you?"
"How come you’re here?"
"Fleur invited me,"
"Your friend is not pleased to see me,” said Krum as they entered the now packed marquee. “Or is he a relative?"
"Cousin,"
"Time to sit down,” Fred told Harry, “or we’re going to get run over by the bride."
"Did you see he’s grown a stupid little beard?"
"Ooooh!"
"Ladies and gentlemen,” said a slightly singsong voice, and with a slight shock, Harry saw the same small, tufty-haired wizard who had presided at Dumbledore’s funeral, now standing in front of Bill and Fleur. “We are gathered here today to celebrate the union of two faithful souls . . ."
"Yes, my tiara sets off the whole thing nicely,” said Auntie Muriel in a rather carrying whisper. “But I must say, Ginevra’s dress is far too low cut."
"Do you, William Arthur, take Fleur Isabelle . . . ?"
". . . then I declare you bonded for life."
"Ladies and gentlemen!” called the tufty-haired wizard. “If you would please stand up!"
"Smooth,"
"We should go and congratulate them!"
"We’ll have time later,” shrugged Ron, snatching three butterbeers from a passing tray and handing one to Harry. “Hermione, cop hold, let’s grab a table. . . . Not there! Nowhere near Muriel —"
"All right if we join you?"
"Oh yes,” she said happily. “Daddy’s just gone to give Bill and Fleur our present."
"What is it, a lifetime’s supply of Gurdyroots?"
"I like this song,"
"She’s great, isn’t she?” said Ron admiringly. “Always good value."
"Who is that man in the yellow?"
"That’s Xenophilius Lovegood, he’s the father of a friend of ours,” said Ron. His pugnacious tone indicated that they were not about to laugh at Xenophilius, despite the clear provocation. “Come and dance,"
"Ah, they are together now?"
"Er — sort of,"
"Who are you?"
"Barny Weasley."
"You, Barny — you know this man Lovegood vell?"
"No, I only met him today. Why?"
"Because,” said Krum, “if he vos not a guest of Fleur’s, I vould duel him, here and now, for vearing that filthy sign upon his chest."
"Sign?” said Harry, looking over at Xenophilius too. The strange triangular eye was gleaming on his chest. “Why? What’s wrong with it?"
"Grindelvald. That is Grindelvald’s sign."
"Grindelwald . . . the Dark wizard Dumbledore defeated?"
"Exactly."
"Grindelvald killed many people, my grandfather, for instance. Of course, he vos never poverful in this country, they said he feared Dumbledore — and rightly, seeing how he vos finished. But this” — he pointed a finger at Xenophilius — “this is his symbol, I recognized it at vunce: Grindelvald carved it into a vall at Durmstrang ven he vos a pupil there. Some idiots copied it onto their books and clothes, thinking to shock, make themselves impressive — until those of us who had lost family members to Grindelvald taught them better."
"Are you — er — quite sure it’s Grindelwald’s — ?"
"I am not mistaken,” said Krum coldly. “I valked past that sign for several years, I know it vell."
"Well, there’s a chance,” said Harry, “that Xenophilius doesn’t actually know what the symbol means. The Lovegoods are quite . . . unusual. He could easily have picked it up somewhere and think it’s a cross section of the head of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack or something."
"The cross section of a vot?"
"Well, I don’t know what they are, but apparently he and his daughter go on holiday looking for them. . . ."
"That’s her,"
"Vy is she doing that?"
"Probably trying to get rid of a Wrackspurt,"
"Gregorovitch!"
"Vot about him?"
"He’s a wandmaker!"
"I know that,"
"He made your wand! That’s why I thought — Quidditch —"
"How do you know Gregorovitch made my vand?"
"I . . . I read it somewhere, I think,” said Harry. “In a — a fan magazine,"
"I had not realized I ever discussed my vand with fans,"
"So . . . er . . . where is Gregorovitch these days?"
"He retired several years ago. I vos one of the last to purchase a Gregorovitch vand. They are the best — although I know, of course, that you Britons set much store by Ollivander."
"This girl is very nice-looking,” Krum said, recalling Harry to his surroundings. Krum was pointing at Ginny, who had just joined Luna. “She is also a relative of yours?"
"Yeah,” said Harry, suddenly irritated, “and she’s seeing someone. Jealous type. Big bloke. You wouldn’t want to cross him."
"Vot,” he said, draining his goblet and getting to his feet again, “is the point of being an international Quidditch player if all the good-looking girls are taken?"
"Odo the Hero"
"May I sit down?"
"Of course, of course,"
"Mr. Doge, I’m Harry Potter."
"My dear boy! Arthur told me you were here, disguised. . . . I am so glad, so honored!"
"I thought of writing to you,” he whispered, “after Dumbledore . . . the shock . . . and for you, I am sure . . ."
"I saw the obituary you wrote for the Daily Prophet,” said Harry. “I didn’t realize you knew Professor Dumbledore so well."
"As well as anyone,” said Doge, dabbing his eyes with a napkin. “Certainly I knew him longest, if you don’t count Aberforth — and somehow, people never do seem to count Aberforth."
"Speaking of the Daily Prophet . . . I don’t know whether you saw, Mr. Doge — ?"
"Oh, please call me Elphias, dear boy."
"Elphias, I don’t know whether you saw the interview Rita Skeeter gave about Dumbledore?"
"Oh yes, Harry, I saw it. That woman, or vulture might be a more accurate term, positively pestered me to talk to her. I am ashamed to say that I became rather rude, called her an interfering trout, which resulted, as you may have seen, in aspersions cast upon my sanity."
"Well, in that interview,” Harry went on, “Rita Skeeter hinted that Professor Dumbledore was involved in the Dark Arts when he was young."
"Don’t believe a word of it!” said Doge at once. “Not a word, Harry! Let nothing tarnish your memories of Albus Dumbledore!"
"Harry, Rita Skeeter is a dreadful —"
"Rita Skeeter? Oh, I love her, always read her!"
"She’s written a book about Dumbledore, you know!"
"Hello, Muriel,” said Doge. “Yes, we were just discussing —"
"You there! Give me your chair, I’m a hundred and seven!"
"Hello again, Barry, or whatever your name is,” she said to Harry. “Now, what were you saying about Rita Skeeter, Elphias? You know she’s written a biography of Dumbledore? I can’t wait to read it, I must remember to place an order at Flourish and Blotts!"
"There’s no need to look like a pair of stuffed frogs! Before he became so respected and respectable and all that tosh, there were some mighty funny rumors about Albus!"
"Ill-informed sniping,"
"You would say that, Elphias,” cackled Auntie Muriel. “I noticed how you skated over the sticky patches in that obituary of yours!"
"I’m sorry you think so,” said Doge, more coldly still. “I assure you I was writing from the heart."
"Oh, we all know you worshipped Dumbledore; I daresay you’ll still think he was a saint even if it does turn out that he did away with his Squib sister!"
"Muriel!"
"What do you mean?” he asked Muriel. “Who said his sister was a Squib? I thought she was ill?"
"Thought wrong, then, didn’t you, Barry!” said Auntie Muriel, looking delighted at the effect she had produced. “Anyway, how could you expect to know anything about it? It all happened years and years before you were even thought of, my dear, and the truth is that those of us who were alive then never knew what really happened. That’s why I can’t wait to find out what Skeeter’s unearthed! Dumbledore kept that sister of his quiet for a long time!"
"Untrue!” wheezed Doge. “Absolutely untrue!"
"He never told me his sister was a Squib,"
"And why on earth would he tell you?"
"The reason Albus never spoke about Ariana,” began Elphias in a voice stiff with emotion, “is, I should have thought, quite clear. He was so devastated by her death —"
"Why did nobody ever see her, Elphias?” squawked Muriel. “Why did half of us never even know she existed, until they carried the coffin out of the house and held a funeral for her? Where was saintly Albus while Ariana was locked in the cellar? Off being brilliant at Hogwarts, and never mind what was going on in his own house!"
"What d’you mean, locked in the cellar?” asked Harry. “What is this?"
"Dumbledore’s mother was a terrifying woman, simply terrifying. Muggle-born, though I heard she pretended otherwise —"
"She never pretended anything of the sort! Kendra was a fine woman,"
"— proud and very domineering, the sort of witch who would have been mortified to produce a Squib —"
"Ariana was not a Squib!"
"So you say, Elphias, but explain, then, why she never attended Hogwarts!” said Auntie Muriel. She turned back to Harry. “In our day, Squibs were often hushed up, though to take it to the extreme of actually imprisoning a little girl in the house and pretending she didn’t exist —"
"I tell you, that’s not what happened!"
"Squibs were usually shipped off to Muggle schools and encouraged to integrate into the Muggle community . . . much kinder than trying to find them a place in the Wizarding world, where they must always be second class; but naturally Kendra Dumbledore wouldn’t have dreamed of letting her daughter go to a Muggle school —"
"Ariana was delicate!” said Doge desperately. “Her health was always too poor to permit her —"
"— to permit her to leave the house?” cackled Muriel. “And yet she was never taken to St. Mungo’s and no Healer was ever summoned to see her!"
"Really, Muriel, how you can possibly know whether —"
"For your information, Elphias, my cousin Lancelot was a Healer at St. Mungo’s at the time, and he told my family in strictest confidence that Ariana had never been seen there. All most suspicious, Lancelot thought!"
"Now, if Kendra hadn’t died first,” Muriel resumed, “I’d have said that it was she who finished off Ariana —"
"How can you, Muriel?” groaned Doge. “A mother kill her own daughter? Think what you are saying!"
"If the mother in question was capable of imprisoning her daughter for years on end, why not?” shrugged Auntie Muriel. “But as I say, it doesn’t fit, because Kendra died before Ariana — of what, nobody ever seemed sure —"
"Oh, no doubt Ariana murdered her,” said Doge with a brave attempt at scorn. “Why not?"
"Yes, Ariana might have made a desperate bid for freedom and killed Kendra in the struggle,” said Auntie Muriel thoughtfully. “Shake your head all you like, Elphias! You were at Ariana’s funeral, were you not?"
"Yes I was,” said Doge, through trembling lips. “And a more desperately sad occasion I cannot remember. Albus was heartbroken —"
"His heart wasn’t the only thing. Didn’t Aberforth break Albus’s nose halfway through the service?"
"How do you — ?"
"My mother was friendly with old Bathilda Bagshot,” said Auntie Muriel happily. “Bathilda described the whole thing to Mother while I was listening at the door. A coffin-side brawl! The way Bathilda told it, Aberforth shouted that it was all Albus’s fault that Ariana was dead and then punched him in the face. According to Bathilda, Albus did not even defend himself, and that’s odd enough in itself, Albus could have destroyed Aberforth in a duel with both hands tied behind his back."
"And I’ll tell you something else,” Muriel said, hiccuping slightly as she lowered her goblet. “I think Bathilda has spilled the beans to Rita Skeeter. All those hints in Skeeter’s interview about an important source close to the Dumbledores — goodness knows she was there all through the Ariana business, and it would fit!"
"Bathilda would never talk to Rita Skeeter!"
"Bathilda Bagshot?” Harry said. “The author of A History of Magic?"
"Yes,” said Doge, clutching at Harry’s question like a drowning man at a life belt. “A most gifted magical historian and an old friend of Albus’s."
"Quite gaga these days, I’ve heard,"
"If that is so, it is even more dishonorable for Skeeter to have taken advantage of her,” said Doge, “and no reliance can be placed on anything Bathilda may have said!"
"Oh, there are ways of bringing back memories, and I’m sure Rita Skeeter knows them all,” said Auntie Muriel. “But even if Bathilda’s completely cuckoo, I’m sure she’d still have old photographs, maybe even letters. She knew the Dumbledores for years. . . . Well worth a trip to Godric’s Hollow, I’d have thought."
"Bathilda Bagshot lives in Godric’s Hollow?"
"Oh yes, she’s been there forever! The Dumbledores moved there after Percival was imprisoned, and she was their neighbor."
"The Dumbledores lived in Godric’s Hollow?"
"Yes, Barry, that’s what I just said,"
"I simply can’t dance anymore,” she panted, slipping off one of her shoes and rubbing the sole of her foot. “Ron’s gone looking to find more butterbeers. It’s a bit odd, I’ve just seen Viktor storming away from Luna’s father, it looked like they’d been arguing —” She dropped her voice, staring at him. “Harry, are you okay?"
"The Ministry has fallen. Scrimgeour is dead. They are coming."
"Ron!” Hermione cried. “Ron, where are you?"
"Protego!"
"Ron! Ron!"
"Where are we?"
"Tottenham Court Road,” panted Hermione. “Walk, just walk, we need to find somewhere for you to change."
"Hermione, we haven’t got anything to change into,"
"Why didn’t I make sure I had the Invisibility Cloak with me?” said Harry, inwardly cursing his own stupidity. “All last year I kept it on me and —"
"It’s okay, I’ve got the Cloak, I’ve got clothes for both of you,” said Hermione. “Just try and act naturally until — this will do."
"When you say you’ve got the Cloak, and clothes . . ."
"Yes, they’re here,"
"How the ruddy hell — ?"
"Undetectable Extension Charm,” said Hermione. “Tricky, but I think I’ve done it okay; anyway, I managed to fit everything we need in here.” She gave the fragile-looking bag a little shake and it echoed like a cargo hold as a number of heavy objects rolled around inside it. “Oh, damn, that’ll be the books,” she said, peering into it, “and I had them all stacked by subject. . . . Oh well. . . . Harry, you’d better take the Invisibility Cloak. Ron, hurry up and change. . . ."
"When did you do all this?"
"I told you at the Burrow, I’ve had the essentials packed for days, you know, in case we needed to make a quick getaway. I packed your rucksack this morning, Harry, after you changed, and put it in here. . . . I just had a feeling. . . ."
"You’re amazing, you are,"
"Thank you,” said Hermione, managing a small smile as she pushed the robes into the bag. “Please, Harry, get that Cloak on!"
"The others — everyone at the wedding —"
"We can’t worry about that now,” whispered Hermione. “It’s you they’re after, Harry, and we’ll just put everyone in even more danger by going back."
"She’s right,” said Ron, who seemed to know that Harry was about to argue, even if he could not see his face. “Most of the Order was there, they’ll look after everyone."
"Yeah."
"Come on, I think we ought to keep moving,"
"Just as a matter of interest, why Tottenham Court Road?"
"I’ve no idea, it just popped into my head, but I’m sure we’re safer out in the Muggle world, it’s not where they’ll expect us to be."
"True,” said Ron, looking around, “but don’t you feel a bit — exposed?"
"Where else is there?” asked Hermione, cringing as the men on the other side of the road started wolf-whistling at her. “We can hardly book rooms at the Leaky Cauldron, can we? And Grimmauld Place is out if Snape can get in there. . . . I suppose we could try my parents’ house, though I think there’s a chance they might check there. . . . Oh, I wish they’d shut up!"
"All right, darling?” the drunkest of the men on the other pavement was yelling. “Fancy a drink? Ditch ginger and come and have a pint!"
"Let’s sit down somewhere,” Hermione said hastily as Ron opened his mouth to shout back across the road. “Look, this will do, in here!"
"You know, we’re not far from the Leaky Cauldron here, it’s only in Charing Cross —"
"Ron, we can’t!"
"Not to stay there, but to find out what’s going on!"
"We know what’s going on! Voldemort’s taken over the Ministry, what else do we need to know?"
"Okay, okay, it was just an idea!"
"I say we find a quiet place to Disapparate and head for the countryside. Once we’re there, we could send a message to the Order."
"Can you do that talking Patronus thing, then?"
"I’ve been practicing and I think so,"
"Well, as long as it doesn’t get them into trouble, though they might’ve been arrested already. God, that’s revolting,"
"Let’s get going, then, I don’t want to drink this muck,” said Ron. “Hermione, have you got Muggle money to pay for this?"
"Yes, I took out all my Building Society savings before I came to the Burrow. I’ll bet all the change is at the bottom,"
"Stupefy!"
"Expulso!"
"Petrificus Totalus!"
"D-diffindo,” she said, pointing her wand at Ron, who roared in pain as she slashed open the knee of his jeans, leaving a deep cut. “Oh, I’m so sorry, Ron, my hand’s shaking! Diffindo!"
"I should’ve recognized him, he was there the night Dumbledore died,"
"That’s Dolohov,” said Ron. “I recognize him from the old wanted posters. I think the big one’s Thorfinn Rowle."
"Never mind what they’re called!” said Hermione a little hysterically. “How did they find us? What are we going to do?"
"Lock the door,” he told her, “and Ron, turn out the lights."
"What are we going to do with them?” Ron whispered to Harry through the dark; then, even more quietly, “Kill them? They’d kill us. They had a good go just now."
"We just need to wipe their memories,” said Harry. “It’s better like that, it’ll throw them off the scent. If we killed them it’d be obvious we were here."
"You’re the boss,” said Ron, sounding profoundly relieved. “But I’ve never done a Memory Charm."
"Nor have I,” said Hermione, “but I know the theory."
"Obliviate."
"Brilliant!” said Harry, clapping her on the back. “Take care of the other one and the waitress while Ron and I clear up."
"Clear up?” said Ron, looking around at the partly destroyed café. “Why?"
"Don’t you think they might wonder what’s happened if they wake up and find themselves in a place that looks like it’s just been bombed?"
"Oh right, yeah . . ."
"It’s no wonder I can’t get it out, Hermione, you packed my old jeans, they’re tight."
"Oh, I’m so sorry,"
"But how did they find us?” Hermione asked, looking from one inert man to the other. “How did they know where we were?"
"You — you don’t think you’ve still got your Trace on you, do you, Harry?"
"He can’t have,” said Ron. “The Trace breaks at seventeen, that’s Wizarding law, you can’t put it on an adult."
"As far as you know,” said Hermione. “What if the Death Eaters have found a way to put it on a seventeen-year-old?"
"But Harry hasn’t been near a Death Eater in the last twenty-four hours. Who’s supposed to have put a Trace back on him?"
"If I can’t use magic, and you can’t use magic near me, without us giving away our position —"
"We’re not splitting up!"
"We need a safe place to hide,” said Ron. “Give us time to think things through."
"Grimmauld Place,"
"Don’t be silly, Harry, Snape can get in there!"
"Ron’s dad said they’ve put up jinxes against him — and even if they haven’t worked,” he pressed on as Hermione began to argue, “so what? I swear, I’d like nothing better than to meet Snape!"
"But —"
"Hermione, where else is there? It’s the best chance we’ve got. Snape’s only one Death Eater. If I’ve still got the Trace on me, we’ll have whole crowds of them on us wherever else we go."
"I think somebody’s been in here,"
"That could’ve happened as the Order left,"
"So where are these jinxes they put up against Snape?"
"Maybe they’re only activated if he shows up?"
"Well, we can’t stay here forever,"
"Severus Snape?"
"We’re not Snape!"
"That m-must have b-been the T-Tongue-Tying Curse Mad-Eye set up for Snape!"
"No!” Harry shouted, and though he had raised his wand no spell occurred to him. “No! It wasn’t us! We didn’t kill you —"
"It’s all r-right. . . . It’s g-gone. . . ."
"Mudbloods, filth, stains of dishonor, taint of shame on the house of my fathers —"
"SHUT UP!"
"That . . . that was . . . ."
"Yeah,” said Harry, “but it wasn’t really him, was it? Just something to scare Snape."
"Before we go any farther, I think we’d better check,” whispered Hermione, and she raised her wand and said, “Homenum revelio."
"Well, you’ve just had a big shock,” said Ron kindly. “What was that supposed to do?"
"It did what I meant it to do!” said Hermione rather crossly. “That was a spell to reveal human presence, and there’s nobody here except us!"
"And old Dusty,"
"Let’s go up,"
"Can’t see anyone out there,” he reported. “And you’d think, if Harry still had a Trace on him, they’d have followed us here. I know they can’t get in the house, but — what’s up, Harry?"
"What did you see?” Ron asked, advancing on Harry. “Did you see him at my place?"
"No, I just felt anger — he’s really angry —"
"But that could be at the Burrow,” said Ron loudly. “What else? Didn’t you see anything? Was he cursing someone?"
"No, I just felt anger — I couldn’t tell —"
"Your scar, again? But what’s going on? I thought that connection had closed!"
"It did, for a while,” muttered Harry; his scar was still painful, which made it hard to concentrate. “I — I think it’s started opening again whenever he loses control, that’s how it used to —"
"But then you’ve got to close your mind!” said Hermione shrilly. “Harry, Dumbledore didn’t want you to use that connection, he wanted you to shut it down, that’s why you were supposed to use Occlumency! Otherwise Voldemort can plant false images in your mind, remember —"
"Yeah, I do remember, thanks,"
"Family safe, do not reply, we are being watched."
"They’re all right, they’re all right!"
"Harry,” he said over Hermione’s shoulder, “I —"
"It’s not a problem,” said Harry, sickened by the pain in his head. “It’s your family, ’course you’re worried. I’d feel the same way.” He thought of Ginny. “I do feel the same way."
"I don’t want to be on my own. Could we use the sleeping bags I’ve brought and camp in here tonight?"
"Bathroom,"
"More, Rowle, or shall we end it and feed you to Nagini? Lord Voldemort is not sure that he will forgive this time. . . . You called me back for this, to tell me that Harry Potter has escaped again? Draco, give Rowle another taste of our displeasure . . . Do it, or feel my wrath yourself!"
"Harry, do you want your toothbrush? I’ve got it here."
"Yeah, great, thanks,"
"Lumos,"
"g"
"I don’t need a cloak to become invisible."
"down,"
"Harry? Harry! Harry!"
"I’m here!” he called. “What’s happened?"
"We woke up and didn’t know where you were!” she said breathlessly. She turned and shouted over her shoulder, “Ron! I’ve found him!"
"Good! Tell him from me he’s a git!"
"Harry, don’t just disappear, please, we were terrified! Why did you come up here anyway?” She gazed around the ransacked room. “What have you been doing?"
"Look what I’ve just found."
"Oh, Harry . . ."
"And there’s this too."
"I’ve been looking for the rest of the letter,” Harry said, “but it’s not here."
"Did you make all this mess, or was some of it done when you got here?"
"Someone had searched before me,"
"I thought so. Every room I looked into on the way up had been disturbed. What were they after, do you think?"
"Information on the Order, if it was Snape."
"But you’d think he’d already have all he needed, I mean, he was in the Order, wasn’t he?"
"Well then,” said Harry, keen to discuss his theory, “what about information on Dumbledore? The second page of this letter, for instance. You know this Bathilda my mum mentions, you know who she is?"
"Who?"
"Bathilda Bagshot, the author of —"
"A History of Magic,” said Hermione, looking interested. “So your parents knew her? She was an incredible magical historian."
"And she’s still alive,” said Harry, “and she lives in Godric’s Hollow, Ron’s Auntie Muriel was talking about her at the wedding. She knew Dumbledore’s family too. Be pretty interesting to talk to, wouldn’t she?"
"I understand why you’d love to talk to her about your mum and dad, and Dumbledore too,” said Hermione. “But that wouldn’t really help us in our search for the Horcruxes, would it?” Harry did not answer, and she rushed on, “Harry, I know you really want to go to Godric’s Hollow, but I’m scared, I’m scared at how easily those Death Eaters found us yesterday. It just makes me feel more than ever that we ought to avoid the place where your parents are buried, I’m sure they’d be expecting you to visit it."
"It’s not just that,” Harry said, still avoiding looking at her. “Muriel said stuff about Dumbledore at the wedding. I want to know the truth. . . ."
"Of course, I can see why that’s upset you, Harry —"
"I’m not upset,” he lied, “I’d just like to know whether or not it’s true or —"
"Harry, do you really think you’ll get the truth from a malicious old woman like Muriel, or from Rita Skeeter? How can you believe them? You knew Dumbledore!"
"I thought I did,"
"But you know how much truth there was in everything Rita wrote about you! Doge is right, how can you let these people tarnish your memories of Dumbledore?"
"Shall we go down to the kitchen?” Hermione suggested after a little pause. “Find something for breakfast?"
"Hermione,” he said, and he was surprised that his voice was so calm. “Come back up here."
"What’s the matter?"
"R.A.B. I think I’ve found him."
"In your mum’s letter? But I didn’t see —"
"Sirius’s brother?"
"He was a Death Eater,” said Harry, “Sirius told me about him, he joined up when he was really young and then got cold feet and tried to leave — so they killed him."
"That fits!” gasped Hermione. “If he was a Death Eater he had access to Voldemort, and if he became disenchanted, then he would have wanted to bring Voldemort down!"
"Ron! RON! Get up here, quick!"
"What’s up? If it’s massive spiders again I want breakfast before I —"
"What? That was Sirius’s brother, wasn’t it? Regulus Arcturus . . . Regulus . . . R.A.B.! The locket — you don’t reckon — ?"
"Let’s find out,” said Harry. He pushed the door: It was locked. Hermione pointed her wand at the handle and said, “Alohomora."
"They’re all about Voldemort,” she said. “Regulus seems to have been a fan for a few years before he joined the Death Eaters. . . ."
"He played Seeker,"
"What?"
"He’s sitting in the middle of the front row, that’s where the Seeker . . . Never mind,"
"There’s an easier way,” said Hermione, as Harry wiped his inky fingers on his jeans. She raised her wand and said, “Accio Locket!"
"Is that it, then? It’s not here?"
"Oh, it could still be here, but under counter-enchantments,” said Hermione. “Charms to prevent it being summoned magically, you know."
"Like Voldemort put on the stone basin in the cave,"
"How are we supposed to find it then?"
"We search manually,"
"That’s a good idea,"
"It could be somewhere else in the house, though,” said Hermione in a rallying tone as they walked back downstairs: As Harry and Ron had become more discouraged, she seemed to have become more determined. “Whether he’d managed to destroy it or not, he’d want to keep it hidden from Voldemort, wouldn’t he? Remember all those awful things we had to get rid of when we were here last time? That clock that shot bolts at everyone and those old robes that tried to strangle Ron; Regulus might have put them there to protect the locket’s hiding place, even though we didn’t realize it at . . . at . . ."
". . . at the time,"
"Something wrong?"
"There was a locket."
"What?"
"In the cabinet in the drawing room. Nobody could open it. And we . . . we . . ."
"Kreacher nicked loads of things back from us,” said Harry. It was the only chance, the only slender hope left to them, and he was going to cling to it until forced to let go. “He had a whole stash of stuff in his cupboard in the kitchen. C’mon."
"Filth! Mudbloods! Scum!"
"It’s not over yet,” said Harry, and he raised his voice and called, “Kreacher!"
"Master,” croaked Kreacher in his bullfrog’s voice, and he bowed low, muttering to his knees, “back in my Mistress’s old house with the blood-traitor Weasley and the Mudblood —"
"I forbid you to call anyone ‘blood traitor’ or ‘Mudblood,’"
"I’ve got a question for you,” said Harry, his heart beating rather fast as he looked down at the elf, “and I order you to answer it truthfully. Understand?"
"Yes, Master,"
"Two years ago,” said Harry, his heart now hammering against his ribs, “there was a big gold locket in the drawing room upstairs. We threw it out. Did you steal it back?"
"Yes."
"Where is it now?"
"Gone."
"Gone?” echoed Harry, elation flooding out of him. “What do you mean, it’s gone?"
"Kreacher,” said Harry fiercely, “I order you —"
"Mundungus Fletcher,” croaked the elf, his eyes still tight shut. “Mundungus Fletcher stole it all: Miss Bella’s and Miss Cissy’s pictures, my Mistress’s gloves, the Order of Merlin, First Class, the goblets with the family crest, and — and —"
" — and the locket, Master Regulus’s locket, Kreacher did wrong, Kreacher failed in his orders!"
"Kreacher, I order you to stay still!"
"Harry, let him up!"
"So he can beat himself up with the poker?” snorted Harry, kneeling beside the elf. “I don’t think so. Right, Kreacher, I want the truth: How do you know Mundungus Fletcher stole the locket?"
"Kreacher saw him!” gasped the elf as tears poured over his snout and into his mouth full of graying teeth. “Kreacher saw him coming out of Kreacher’s cupboard with his hands full of Kreacher’s treasures. Kreacher told the sneak thief to stop, but Mundungus Fletcher laughed and r-ran. . . ."
"You called the locket ‘Master Regulus’s,’” said Harry. “Why? Where did it come from? What did Regulus have to do with it? Kreacher, sit up and tell me everything you know about that locket, and everything Regulus had to do with it!"
". . . he said that the Dark Lord required an elf."
"Voldemort needed an elf?"
"Oh yes,” moaned Kreacher. “And Master Regulus had volunteered Kreacher. It was an honor, said Master Regulus, an honor for him and for Kreacher, who must be sure to do whatever the Dark Lord ordered him to do . . . and then to c-come home."
"So Kreacher went to the Dark Lord. The Dark Lord did not tell Kreacher what they were to do, but took Kreacher with him to a cave beside the sea. And beyond the cave there was a cavern, and in the cavern was a great black lake . . ."
". . . There was a boat . . ."
"There was a b-basin full of potion on the island. The D-Dark Lord made Kreacher drink it. . . ."
"And then the Dark Lord sailed away, leaving Kreacher on the island. . . ."
"Kreacher needed water, he crawled to the island’s edge and he drank from the black lake . . . and hands, dead hands, came out of the water and dragged Kreacher under the surface. . . ."
"How did you get away?"
"Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back,"
"I know — but how did you escape the Inferi?"
"Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back,"
"I know, but —"
"Well, it’s obvious, isn’t it, Harry?” said Ron. “He Disapparated!"
"But . . . you couldn’t Apparate in and out of that cave,” said Harry, “otherwise Dumbledore —"
"Elf magic isn’t like wizard’s magic, is it?” said Ron. “I mean, they can Apparate and Disapparate in and out of Hogwarts when we can’t."
"Of course, Voldemort would have considered the ways of house-elves far beneath his notice, just like all the purebloods who treat them like animals . . . It would never have occurred to him that they might have magic that he didn’t."
"The house-elf’s highest law is his Master’s bidding,” intoned Kreacher. “Kreacher was told to come home, so Kreacher came home. . . ."
"Well, then, you did what you were told, didn’t you?” said Hermione kindly. “You didn’t disobey orders at all!"
"So what happened when you got back?” Harry asked. “What did Regulus say when you told him what had happened?"
"Master Regulus was very worried, very worried,” croaked Kreacher. “Master Regulus told Kreacher to stay hidden and not to leave the house. And then . . . it was a little while later . . . Master Regulus came to find Kreacher in his cupboard one night, and Master Regulus was strange, not as he usually was, disturbed in his mind, Kreacher could tell . . . and he asked Kreacher to take him to the cave, the cave where Kreacher had gone with the Dark Lord. . . ."
"And he made you drink the potion?"
"M-Master Regulus took from his pocket a locket like the one the Dark Lord had,” said Kreacher, tears pouring down either side of his snoutlike nose. “And he told Kreacher to take it and, when the basin was empty, to switch the lockets. . . ."
"And he ordered — Kreacher to leave — without him. And he told Kreacher — to go home — and never to tell my Mistress — what he had done — but to destroy — the first locket. And he drank — all the potion — and Kreacher swapped the lockets — and watched . . . as Master Regulus . . . was dragged beneath the water . . . and . . ."
"Oh, Kreacher!"
"The Mudblood touched Kreacher, he will not allow it, what would his Mistress say?"
"I told you not to call her ‘Mudblood’!"
"Stop him — stop him!” Hermione cried. “Oh, don’t you see now how sick it is, the way they’ve got to obey?"
"Kreacher — stop, stop!"
"So you brought the locket home,” he said relentlessly, for he was determined to know the full story. “And you tried to destroy it?"
"Nothing Kreacher did made any mark upon it,” moaned the elf. “Kreacher tried everything, everything he knew, but nothing, nothing would work. . . . So many powerful spells upon the casing, Kreacher was sure the way to destroy it was to get inside it, but it would not open. . . . Kreacher punished himself, he tried again, he punished himself, he tried again. Kreacher failed to obey orders, Kreacher could not destroy the locket! And his Mistress was mad with grief, because Master Regulus had disappeared, and Kreacher could not tell her what had happened, no, because Master Regulus had f-f-forbidden him to tell any of the f-f-family what happened in the c-cave. . . ."
"I don’t understand you, Kreacher,” he said finally. “Voldemort tried to kill you, Regulus died to bring Voldemort down, but you were still happy to betray Sirius to Voldemort? You were happy to go to Narcissa and Bellatrix, and pass information to Voldemort through them. . . ."
"Harry, Kreacher doesn’t think like that,” said Hermione, wiping her eyes on the back of her hand. “He’s a slave; house-elves are used to bad, even brutal treatment; what Voldemort did to Kreacher wasn’t that far out of the common way. What do wizard wars mean to an elf like Kreacher? He’s loyal to people who are kind to him, and Mrs. Black must have been, and Regulus certainly was, so he served them willingly and parroted their beliefs. I know what you’re going to say,” she went on as Harry began to protest, “that Regulus changed his mind . . . but he doesn’t seem to have explained that to Kreacher, does he? And I think I know why. Kreacher and Regulus’s family were all safer if they kept to the old pure-blood line. Regulus was trying to protect them all."
"Sirius —"
"Sirius was horrible to Kreacher, Harry, and it’s no good looking like that, you know it’s true. Kreacher had been alone for a long time when Sirius came to live here, and he was probably starving for a bit of affection. I’m sure ‘Miss Cissy’ and ‘Miss Bella’ were perfectly lovely to Kreacher when he turned up, so he did them a favor and told them everything they wanted to know. I’ve said all along that wizards would pay for how they treat house-elves. Well, Voldemort did . . . and so did Sirius."
"Kreacher,” said Harry after a while, “when you feel up to it, er . . . please sit up."
"Kreacher, I am going to ask you to do something,"
"Kreacher, I want you, please, to go and find Mundungus Fletcher. We need to find out where the locket — where Master Regulus’s locket is. It’s really important. We want to finish the work Master Regulus started, we want to — er — ensure that he didn’t die in vain."
"Find Mundungus Fletcher?"
"And bring him here, to Grimmauld Place,” said Harry. “Do you think you could do that for us?"
"Kreacher, I’d, er, like you to have this,” he said, pressing the locket into the elf’s hand. “This belonged to Regulus and I’m sure he’d want you to have it as a token of gratitude for what you —"
"Overkill, mate,"
"Death Eaters, for sure,” said Ron, as he, Harry, and Hermione watched from the drawing room windows. “Reckon they know we’re in here?"
"I don’t think so,” said Hermione, though she looked frightened, “or they’d have sent Snape in after us, wouldn’t they?"
"D’you reckon he’s been in here and had his tongue tied by Moody’s curse?"
"Yes,” said Hermione, “otherwise he’d have been able to tell that lot how to get in, wouldn’t he? But they’re probably watching to see whether we turn up. They know that Harry owns the house, after all."
"How do they — ?"
"Wizarding wills are examined by the Ministry, remember? They’ll know Sirius left you the place."
"Will you stop it!"
"Sorry, sorry!” said Ron, clicking the Deluminator and restoring the lights. “I don’t know I’m doing it!"
"Well, can’t you find something useful to occupy yourself?"
"What, like reading kids’ stories?"
"Dumbledore left me this book, Ron —"
"— and he left me the Deluminator, maybe I’m supposed to use it!"
"Severus Snape?"
"It was not I who killed you, Albus,"
"Don’t move!"
"Mudbloods and filth dishonoring my house —"
"Hold your fire, it’s me, Remus!"
"Oh, thank goodness,"
"Show yourself!"
"I am Remus John Lupin, werewolf, sometimes known as Moony, one of the four creators of the Marauder’s Map, married to Nymphadora, usually known as Tonks, and I taught you how to produce a Patronus, Harry, which takes the form of a stag."
"Oh, all right,” said Harry, lowering his wand, “but I had to check, didn’t I?"
"Speaking as your ex-Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, I quite agree that you had to check. Ron, Hermione, you shouldn’t be quite so quick to lower your defenses."
"No sign of Severus, then?"
"No,” said Harry. “What’s going on? Is everyone okay?"
"Yes,” said Lupin, “but we’re all being watched. There are a couple of Death Eaters in the square outside —"
"We know —"
"I had to Apparate very precisely onto the top step outside the front door to be sure that they would not see me. They can’t know you’re in here or I’m sure they’d have more people out there; they’re staking out everywhere that’s got any connection with you, Harry. Let’s go downstairs, there’s a lot to tell you, and I want to know what happened after you left the Burrow."
"I’d have been here three days ago but I needed to shake off the Death Eater tailing me,” said Lupin. “So, you came straight here after the wedding?"
"No,” said Harry, “only after we ran into a couple of Death Eaters in a café on Tottenham Court Road."
"What?"
"But how did they find you so quickly? It’s impossible to track anyone who Apparates, unless you grab hold of them as they disappear!"
"And it doesn’t seem likely they were just strolling down Tottenham Court Road at the time, does it?"
"We wondered,” said Hermione tentatively, “whether Harry could still have the Trace on him?"
"Impossible,” said Lupin. Ron looked smug, and Harry felt hugely relieved. “Apart from anything else, they’d know for sure Harry was here if he still had the Trace on him, wouldn’t they? But I can’t see how they could have tracked you to Tottenham Court Road, that’s worrying, really worrying."
"Tell us what happened after we left, we haven’t heard a thing since Ron’s dad told us the family were safe."
"Well, Kingsley saved us,” said Lupin. “Thanks to his warning most of the wedding guests were able to Disapparate before they arrived."
"Were they Death Eaters or Ministry people?"
"A mixture; but to all intents and purposes they’re the same thing now,” said Lupin. “There were about a dozen of them, but they didn’t know you were there, Harry. Arthur heard a rumor that they tried to torture your whereabouts out of Scrimgeour before they killed him; if it’s true, he didn’t give you away."
"The Death Eaters searched the Burrow from top to bottom,"
"At the same time that they were smashing up the wedding, more Death Eaters were forcing their way into every Order-connected house in the country. No deaths,” he added quickly, forestalling the question, “but they were rough. They burned down Dedalus Diggle’s house, but as you know he wasn’t there, and they used the Cruciatus Curse on Tonks’s family. Again, trying to find out where you went after you visited them. They’re all right — shaken, obviously, but otherwise okay."
"The Death Eaters got through all those protective charms?"
"What you’ve got to realize, Harry, is that the Death Eaters have got the full might of the Ministry on their side now,” said Lupin. “They’ve got the power to perform brutal spells without fear of identification or arrest. They managed to penetrate every defensive spell we’d cast against them, and once inside, they were completely open about why they’d come."
"And are they bothering to give an excuse for torturing Harry’s whereabouts out of people?"
"Well,"
"Here,” he said, pushing it across the table to Harry, “you’ll know sooner or later anyway. That’s their pretext for going after you."
"I’m sorry, Harry,"
"So Death Eaters have taken over the Daily Prophet too?"
"But surely people realize what’s going on?"
"The coup has been smooth and virtually silent,” said Lupin. “The official version of Scrimgeour’s murder is that he resigned; he has been replaced by Pius Thicknesse, who is under the Imperius Curse."
"Why didn’t Voldemort declare himself Minister of Magic?"
"Naturally many people have deduced what has happened: There has been such a dramatic change in Ministry policy in the last few days, and many are whispering that Voldemort must be behind it. However, that is the point: They whisper. They daren’t confide in each other, not knowing whom to trust; they are scared to speak out, in case their suspicions are true and their families are targeted. Yes, Voldemort is playing a very clever game. Declaring himself might have provoked open rebellion: Remaining masked has created confusion, uncertainty, and fear."
"And this dramatic change in Ministry policy,” said Harry, “involves warning the Wizarding world against me instead of Voldemort?"
"That’s certainly part of it,"
"Meanwhile, the Ministry has started moving against Muggle-borns."
"Look at page two."
"‘Muggle-born Register,’” she read aloud. “‘The Ministry of Magic is undertaking a survey of so-called “Muggle-borns,"
"‘The Ministry is determined to root out such usurpers of magical power, and to this end has issued an invitation to every so-called Muggle-born to present themselves for interview by the newly appointed Muggle-born Registration Commission.’"
"People won’t let this happen,"
"It is happening, Ron,” said Lupin. “Muggle-borns are being rounded up as we speak."
"But how are they supposed to have ‘stolen’ magic?” said Ron. “It’s mental, if you could steal magic there wouldn’t be any Squibs, would there?"
"I know,” said Lupin. “Nevertheless, unless you can prove that you have at least one close Wizarding relative, you are now deemed to have obtained your magical power illegally and must suffer the punishment."
"What if purebloods and half-bloods swear a Muggle-born’s part of their family? I’ll tell everyone Hermione’s my cousin —"
"Thank you, Ron, but I couldn’t let you —"
"You won’t have a choice,” said Ron fiercely, gripping her hand back. “I’ll teach you my family tree so you can answer questions on it."
"Ron, as we’re on the run with Harry Potter, the most wanted person in the country, I don’t think it matters. If I was going back to school it would be different. What’s Voldemort planning for Hogwarts?"
"Attendance is now compulsory for every young witch and wizard,” he replied. “That was announced yesterday. It’s a change, because it was never obligatory before. Of course, nearly every witch and wizard in Britain has been educated at Hogwarts, but their parents had the right to teach them at home or send them abroad if they preferred. This way, Voldemort will have the whole Wizarding population under his eye from a young age. And it’s also another way of weeding out Muggle-borns, because students must be given Blood Status — meaning that they have proven to the Ministry that they are of Wizard descent — before they are allowed to attend."
"It’s . . . it’s . . ."
"I know."
"I’ll understand if you can’t confirm this, Harry, but the Order is under the impression that Dumbledore left you a mission."
"He did,” Harry replied, “and Ron and Hermione are in on it and they’re coming with me."
"Can you confide in me what the mission is?"
"I can’t, Remus, I’m sorry. If Dumbledore didn’t tell you I don’t think I can."
"I thought you’d say that,” said Lupin, looking disappointed. “But I might still be of some use to you. You know what I am and what I can do. I could come with you to provide protection. There would be no need to tell me exactly what you were up to."
"But what about Tonks?"
"What about her?"
"Well,” said Hermione, frowning, “you’re married! How does she feel about you going away with us?"
"Tonks will be perfectly safe,” said Lupin. “She’ll be at her parents’ house."
"Remus,” said Hermione tentatively, “is everything all right . . . you know . . . between you and —"
"Everything is fine, thank you,"
"Tonks is going to have a baby."
"Oh, how wonderful!"
"Excellent!"
"Congratulations,"
"So . . . do you accept my offer? Will three become four? I cannot believe that Dumbledore would have disapproved, he appointed me your Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, after all. And I must tell you that I believe that we are facing magic many of us have never encountered or imagined."
"Just — just to be clear,” he said. “You want to leave Tonks at her parents’ house and come away with us?"
"She’ll be perfectly safe there, they’ll look after her,” said Lupin. He spoke with a finality bordering on indifference. “Harry, I’m sure James would have wanted me to stick with you."
"Well,” said Harry slowly, “I’m not. I’m pretty sure my father would have wanted to know why you aren’t sticking with your own kid, actually."
"You don’t understand,"
"Explain, then,"
"I — I made a grave mistake in marrying Tonks. I did it against my better judgment and I have regretted it very much ever since."
"I see,” said Harry, “so you’re just going to dump her and the kid and run off with us?"
"Don’t you understand what I’ve done to my wife and my unborn child? I should never have married her, I’ve made her an outcast!"
"You have only ever seen me amongst the Order, or under Dumbledore’s protection at Hogwarts! You don’t know how most of the Wizarding world sees creatures like me! When they know of my affliction, they can barely talk to me! Don’t you see what I’ve done? Even her own family is disgusted by our marriage, what parents want their only daughter to marry a werewolf? And the child — the child —"
"My kind don’t usually breed! It will be like me, I am convinced of it — how can I forgive myself, when I knowingly risked passing on my own condition to an innocent child? And if, by some miracle, it is not like me, then it will be better off, a hundred times so, without a father of whom it must always be ashamed!"
"Remus!” whispered Hermione, tears in her eyes. “Don’t say that — how could any child be ashamed of you?"
"Oh, I don’t know, Hermione,” said Harry. “I’d be pretty ashamed of him."
"If the new regime thinks Muggle-borns are bad,” Harry said, “what will they do to a half-werewolf whose father’s in the Order? My father died trying to protect my mother and me, and you reckon he’d tell you to abandon your kid to go on an adventure with us?"
"How — how dare you?” said Lupin. “This is not about a desire for — for danger or personal glory — how dare you suggest such a —"
"I think you’re feeling a bit of a daredevil,” Harry said. “You fancy stepping into Sirius’s shoes —"
"Harry, no!"
"I’d never have believed this,” Harry said. “The man who taught me to fight dementors — a coward."
"Remus, Remus, come back!"
"Harry!” wailed Hermione. “How could you?"
"It was easy,"
"Don’t look at me like that!"
"Don’t you start on her!"
"No — no — we mustn’t fight!"
"You shouldn’t have said that stuff to Lupin,"
"He had it coming to him,"
"Parents,” said Harry, “shouldn’t leave their kids unless — unless they’ve got to."
"Harry —"
"I know I shouldn’t have called him a coward."
"No, you shouldn’t,"
"But he’s acting like one."
"All the same . . ."
"I know,” said Harry. “But if it makes him go back to Tonks, it’ll be worth it, won’t it?"
"Slammed the door in my face when I went around to welcome her with a batch of homemade Cauldron Cakes,” says Bathilda Bagshot. “The first year they were there I only ever saw the two boys. Wouldn’t have known there was a daughter if I hadn’t been picking Plangentines by moonlight the winter after they moved in, and saw Kendra leading Ariana out into the back garden. Walked her round the lawn once, keeping a firm grip on her, then took her back inside. Didn’t know what to make of it."
"My sister is too frail for school."
"Kreacher has returned with the thief Mundungus Fletcher, Master."
"Expelliarmus!"
"What?” he bellowed, writhing in his attempts to free himself from Ron’s grip. “Wha’ve I done? Setting a bleedin’ ’ouse-elf on me, what are you playing at, wha’ve I done, lemme go, lemme go, or —"
"You’re not in much of a position to make threats,"
"Kreacher apologizes for the delay in bringing the thief, Master,” croaked the elf. “Fletcher knows how to avoid capture, has many hidey-holes and accomplices. Nevertheless, Kreacher cornered the thief in the end."
"You’ve done really well, Kreacher,"
"Right, we’ve got a few questions for you,"
"I panicked, okay? I never wanted to come along, no offense, mate, but I never volunteered to die for you, an’ that was bleedin’ You-Know-Who come flying at me, anyone woulda got outta there, I said all along I didn’t wanna do it —"
"For your information, none of the rest of us Disapparated,"
"Well, you’re a bunch of bleedin’ ’eroes then, aren’t you, but I never pretended I was up for killing meself —"
"We’re not interested in why you ran out on Mad-Eye,” said Harry, moving his wand a little closer to Mundungus’s baggy, bloodshot eyes. “We already knew you were an unreliable bit of scum."
"Well then, why the ’ell am I being ’unted down by ’ouse-elves? Or is this about them goblets again? I ain’t got none of ’em left, or you could ’ave ’em —"
"It’s not about the goblets either, although you’re getting warmer,” said Harry. “Shut up and listen."
"When you cleaned out this house of anything valuable,"
"Sirius never cared about any of the junk —"
"Call ’im off, call ’im off, ’e should be locked up!"
"Kreacher, no!"
"Perhaps just one more, Master Harry, for luck?"
"We need him conscious, Kreacher, but if he needs persuading you can do the honors,"
"Thank you very much, Master,"
"When you stripped this house of all the valuables you could find,” Harry began again, “you took a bunch of stuff from the kitchen cupboard. There was a locket there.” Harry’s mouth was suddenly dry: He could sense Ron and Hermione’s tension and excitement too. “What did you do with it?"
"Why?” asked Mundungus. “Is it valuable?"
"You’ve still got it!"
"No, he hasn’t,” said Ron shrewdly. “He’s wondering whether he should have asked more money for it."
"More?” said Mundungus. “That wouldn’t have been effing difficult . . . bleedin’ gave it away, di’n’ I? No choice."
"What do you mean?"
"I was selling in Diagon Alley and she come up to me and asks if I’ve got a license for trading in magical artifacts. Bleedin’ snoop. She was gonna fine me, but she took a fancy to the locket an’ told me she’d take it and let me off that time, and to fink meself lucky."
"Who was this woman?"
"I dunno, some Ministry hag."
"Little woman. Bow on top of ’er head."
"Looked like a toad."
"Aguamenti!"
"Severus Snape?"
"I didn’t kill you,” he said, once it had unrolled, then held his breath as the dusty jinx-figure exploded. He waited until he was halfway down the stairs to the kitchen, out of earshot of Mrs. Black and clear of the dust cloud, before calling, “I’ve got news, and you won’t like it."
"Shoes off, if you please, Master Harry, and hands washed before dinner,"
"What’s happened?"
"No!"
"‘I welcome the opportunity to uphold our finest Wizarding traditions and values —’ Like committing murder and cutting off people’s ears, I suppose! Snape, headmaster! Snape in Dumbledore’s study — Merlin’s pants!” she shrieked, making both Harry and Ron jump. She leapt up from the table and hurtled from the room, shouting as she went, “I’ll be back in a minute!"
"‘Merlin’s pants’?” repeated Ron, looking amused. “She must be upset."
"The other teachers won’t stand for this. McGonagall and Flitwick and Sprout all know the truth, they know how Dumbledore died. They won’t accept Snape as headmaster. And who are these Carrows?"
"Death Eaters,” said Harry. “There are pictures of them inside. They were at the top of the tower when Snape killed Dumbledore, so it’s all friends together. And,” Harry went on bitterly, drawing up a chair, “I can’t see that the other teachers have got any choice but to stay. If the Ministry and Voldemort are behind Snape it’ll be a choice between staying and teaching, or a nice few years in Azkaban — and that’s if they’re lucky. I reckon they’ll stay to try and protect the students."
"Thanks, Kreacher,” said Harry, flipping over the Prophet so as not to have to look at Snape’s face. “Well, at least we know exactly where Snape is now."
"There are still a load of Death Eaters watching the house,” he told Ron as he ate, “more than usual. It’s like they’re hoping we’ll march out carrying our school trunks and head off for the Hogwarts Express."
"I’ve been thinking about that all day. It left nearly six hours ago. Weird, not being on it, isn’t it?"
"They nearly saw me coming back in just now,” Harry said. “I landed badly on the top step, and the Cloak slipped."
"I do that every time. Oh, here she is,” Ron added, craning around in his seat to watch Hermione reentering the kitchen. “And what in the name of Merlin’s most baggy Y Fronts was that about?"
"I remembered this,"
"Phineas Nigellus,"
"Sorry?"
"Snape could send Phineas Nigellus to look inside this house for him,” Hermione explained to Ron as she resumed her seat. “But let him try it now, all Phineas Nigellus will be able to see is the inside of my handbag."
"Good thinking!"
"Thank you,” smiled Hermione, pulling her soup toward her. “So, Harry, what else happened today?"
"Nothing,” said Harry. “Watched the Ministry entrance for seven hours. No sign of her. Saw your dad, though, Ron. He looks fine."
"Dad always told us most Ministry people use the Floo Network to get to work,” Ron said. “That’s why we haven’t seen Umbridge, she’d never walk, she’d think she’s too important."
"And what about that funny old witch and that little wizard in the navy robes?"
"Oh yeah, the bloke from Magical Maintenance,"
"How do you know he works for Magical Maintenance?"
"Dad said everyone from Magical Maintenance wears navy blue robes."
"But you never told us that!"
"There’s nothing in here about navy blue robes, nothing!"
"Well, does it really matter?"
"Ron, it all matters! If we’re going to get into the Ministry and not give ourselves away when they’re bound to be on the lookout for intruders, every little detail matters! We’ve been over and over this, I mean, what’s the point of all these reconnaissance trips if you aren’t even bothering to tell us —"
"Blimey, Hermione, I forget one little thing —"
"You do realize, don’t you, that there’s probably no more dangerous place in the whole world for us to be right now than the Ministry of —"
"I think we should do it tomorrow,"
"Tomorrow?” repeated Hermione. “You aren’t serious, Harry?"
"I am,” said Harry. “I don’t think we’re going to be much better prepared than we are now even if we skulk around the Ministry entrance for another month. The longer we put it off, the farther away that locket could be. There’s already a good chance Umbridge has chucked it away; the thing doesn’t open."
"Unless,” said Ron, “she’s found a way of opening it and she’s now possessed."
"Wouldn’t make any difference to her, she was so evil in the first place,"
"We know everything important,” Harry went on, addressing Hermione. “We know they’ve stopped Apparition in and out of the Ministry. We know only the most senior Ministry members are allowed to connect their homes to the Floo Network now, because Ron heard those two Unspeakables complaining about it. And we know roughly where Umbridge’s office is, because of what you heard that bearded bloke saying to his mate —"
"‘I’ll be up on level one, Dolores wants to see me,’"
"Exactly,” said Harry. “And we know you get in using those funny coins, or tokens, or whatever they are, because I saw that witch borrowing one from her friend —"
"But we haven’t got any!"
"If the plan works, we will have,"
"I don’t know, Harry, I don’t know. . . . There are an awful lot of things that could go wrong, so much relies on chance. . . ."
"That’ll be true even if we spend another three months preparing,” said Harry. “It’s time to act."
"All right,” said Ron slowly, “let’s say we go for it tomorrow. . . . I think it should just be me and Harry."
"Oh, don’t start that again!” sighed Hermione. “I thought we’d settled this."
"It’s one thing hanging around the entrances under the Cloak, but this is different, Hermione.” Ron jabbed a finger at a copy of the Daily Prophet dated ten days previously. “You’re on the list of Muggle-borns who didn’t present themselves for interrogation!"
"And you’re supposed to be dying of spattergroit at the Burrow! If anyone shouldn’t go, it’s Harry, he’s got a ten-thousand-Galleon price on his head —"
"Fine, I’ll stay here,” said Harry. “Let me know if you ever defeat Voldemort, won’t you?"
"Well, if all three of us go we’ll have to Disapparate separately,” Ron was saying. “We can’t all fit under the Cloak anymore."
"Master has not finished his soup, would Master prefer the savory stew, or else the treacle tart to which Master is so partial?"
"Thanks, Kreacher, but I’ll be back in a minute — er — bathroom."
"Gregorovitch?"
"I want Gregorovitch."
"Er wohnt hier nicht mehr!” she cried, shaking her head. “He no live here! He no live here! I know him not!"
"Where is he?"
"Das weiß ich nicht! He move! I know not, I know not!"
"Harry! HARRY!"
"Harry, open up!"
"What were you doing?"
"What d’you think I was doing?"
"You were yelling your head off!"
"Oh yeah . . . I must’ve dozed off or —"
"Harry, please don’t insult our intelligence,” said Hermione, taking deep breaths. “We know your scar hurt downstairs, and you’re white as a sheet."
"Fine. I’ve just seen Voldemort murdering a woman. By now he’s probably killed her whole family. And he didn’t need to. It was Cedric all over again, they were just there. . . ."
"Harry, you aren’t supposed to let this happen anymore!” Hermione cried, her voice echoing through the bathroom. “Dumbledore wanted you to use Occlumency! He thought the connection was dangerous — Voldemort can use it, Harry! What good is it to watch him kill and torture, how can it help?"
"Because it means I know what he’s doing,"
"So you’re not even going to try to shut him out?"
"Hermione, I can’t. You know I’m lousy at Occlumency, I never got the hang of it."
"You never really tried!” she said hotly. “I don’t get it, Harry — do you like having this special connection or relationship or what — whatever —"
"Like it?” he said quietly. “Would you like it?"
"I — no — I’m sorry, Harry, I didn’t mean —"
"I hate it, I hate the fact that he can get inside me, that I have to watch him when he’s most dangerous. But I’m going to use it."
"Dumbledore —"
"Forget Dumbledore. This is my choice, nobody else’s. I want to know why he’s after Gregorovitch."
"Who?"
"He’s a foreign wandmaker,” said Harry. “He made Krum’s wand and Krum reckons he’s brilliant."
"But according to you,” said Ron, “Voldemort’s got Ollivander locked up somewhere. If he’s already got a wandmaker, what does he need another one for?"
"Maybe he agrees with Krum, maybe he thinks Gregorovitch is better . . . or else he thinks Gregorovitch will be able to explain what my wand did when he was chasing me, because Ollivander didn’t know."
"Harry, you keep talking about what your wand did,” said Hermione, “but you made it happen! Why are you so determined not to take responsibility for your own power?"
"Because I know it wasn’t me! And so does Voldemort, Hermione! We both know what really happened!"
"Drop it,” he advised her. “It’s up to him. And if we’re going to the Ministry tomorrow, don’t you reckon we should go over the plan?"
"You look terrible,"
"Not for long,"
"Robes,” she said under her breath, acknowledging their presence with a nervous nod and continuing to poke around in her beaded bag, “Polyjuice Potion . . . Invisibility Cloak . . . Decoy Detonators . . . You should each take a couple just in case. . . . Puking Pastilles, Nosebleed Nougat, Extendable Ears . . ."
"Bless him,” said Ron fondly, “and when you think I used to fantasize about cutting off his head and sticking it on the wall."
"Right then,” said Hermione, checking her watch. “She ought to be here in about five minutes. When I’ve Stunned her —"
"Hermione, we know,” said Ron sternly. “And I thought we were supposed to open the door before she got here?"
"I nearly forgot! Stand back —"
"And now,” she said, turning back to face the other two in the alleyway, “we put on the Cloak again —"
"— and we wait,"
"Nicely done, Hermione,"
"She’s Mafalda Hopkirk,” he said, reading a small card that identified their victim as an assistant in the Improper Use of Magic Office. “You’d better take this, Hermione, and here are the tokens."
"We’re running late, Mr. Magical Maintenance will be here any second."
"Oh, hello, Mafalda."
"Hello!” said Hermione in a quavery voice. “How are you today?"
"Not so good, actually,"
"I’m sorry to hear you’re under the weather,” said Hermione, talking firmly over the little wizard as he tried to expound upon his problems; it was essential to stop him from reaching the street. “Here, have a sweet."
"Eh? Oh, no thanks —"
"I insist!"
"Oh dear!” she said, as he splattered the alley with sick. “Perhaps you’d better take the day off!"
"No — no!” He choked and retched, trying to continue on his way despite being unable to walk straight. “I must — today — must go —"
"But that’s just silly!” said Hermione, alarmed. “You can’t go to work in this state — I think you ought to go to St. Mungo’s and get them to sort you out!"
"You simply can’t go to work like this!"
"Urgh,” said Hermione, holding up the skirts of her robe to avoid the puddles of sick. “It would have made much less mess to Stun him too."
"Yeah,” said Ron, emerging from under the cloak holding the wizard’s bag, “but I still think a whole pile of unconscious bodies would have drawn more attention. Keen on his job, though, isn’t he? Chuck us the hair and the potion, then."
"Weird he wasn’t wearing them today, wasn’t it, seeing how much he wanted to go? Anyway, I’m Reg Cattermole, according to the label in the back."
"Now wait here,” Hermione told Harry, who was still under the Invisibility Cloak, “and we’ll be back with some hairs for you."
"We don’t know who he is,” Hermione said, passing Harry several curly black hairs, “but he’s gone home with a dreadful nosebleed! Here, he’s pretty tall, you’ll need bigger robes. . . ."
"Blimey, that’s scary,"
"Take one of Mafalda’s tokens,” Hermione told Harry, “and let’s go, it’s nearly nine."
"See you in a moment, then,"
"Morning, Reg!” called another wizard in navy blue robes as he let himself into a cubicle by inserting his golden token into a slot in the door. “Blooming pain in the bum, this, eh? Forcing us all to get to work this way! Who are they expecting to turn up, Harry Potter?"
"Yeah,” he said, “stupid, isn’t it?"
"We have to flush ourselves in?"
"Looks like it,"
"Out of the way, can’t y — oh, sorry, Runcorn!"
"Psst!"
"You got in all right, then?"
"No, he’s still stuck in the bog,"
"Oh, very funny . . . It’s horrible, isn’t it?” she said to Harry, who was staring up at the statue. “Have you seen what they’re sitting on?"
"Muggles,” whispered Hermione. “In their rightful place. Come on, let’s get going."
"Cattermole!"
"Morning, Yaxley!"
"I requested somebody from Magical Maintenance to sort out my office, Cattermole. It’s still raining in there."
"Raining . . . in your office? That’s — that’s not good, is it?"
"You think it’s funny, Cattermole, do you?"
"No,” said Ron, “no, of course —"
"You realize that I am on my way downstairs to interrogate your wife, Cattermole? In fact, I’m quite surprised you’re not down there holding her hand while she waits. Already given her up as a bad job, have you? Probably wise. Be sure and marry a pureblood next time."
"I — I —"
"But if my wife were accused of being a Mudblood,” said Yaxley, “— not that any woman I married would ever be mistaken for such filth — and the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement needed a job doing, I would make it my priority to do that job, Cattermole. Do you understand me?"
"Yes,"
"Then attend to it, Cattermole, and if my office is not completely dry within an hour, your wife’s Blood Status will be in even graver doubt than it is now."
"What am I going to do?” Ron asked the other two at once; he looked stricken. “If I don’t turn up, my wife — I mean, Cattermole’s wife —"
"We’ll come with you, we should stick together —"
"That’s mental, we haven’t got much time. You two find Umbridge, I’ll go and sort out Yaxley’s office — but how do I stop it raining?"
"Try Finite Incantatem,” said Hermione at once, “that should stop the rain if it’s a hex or curse; if it doesn’t, something’s gone wrong with an Atmospheric Charm, which will be more difficult to fix, so as an interim measure try Impervius to protect his belongings —"
"Say it again, slowly —” said Ron, searching his pockets desperately for a quill, but at that moment the lift juddered to a halt. A disembodied female voice said, “Level four, Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, Being, and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liaison Office, and Pest Advisory Bureau,"
"Morning, Albert,” said a bushily whiskered man, smiling at Harry. He glanced over at Ron and Hermione as the lift creaked upward once more; Hermione was now whispering frantic instructions to Ron. The wizard leaned toward Harry, leering, and muttered, “Dirk Cresswell, eh? From Goblin Liaison? Nice one, Albert. I’m pretty confident I’ll get his job now!"
"Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration Services,"
"Actually, Harry, I think I’d better go after him, I don’t think he knows what he’s doing and if he gets caught the whole thing —"
"Level one, Minister of Magic and Support Staff."
"Travers sent you, did he?"
"Y-yes,"
"Good, you’ll do perfectly well.” Umbridge spoke to the wizard in black and gold. “That’s that problem solved, Minister, if Mafalda can be spared for record-keeping we shall be able to start straightaway.” She consulted her clipboard. “Ten people today and one of them the wife of a Ministry employee! Tut, tut . . . even here, in the heart of the Ministry!” She stepped into the lift beside Hermione, as did the two wizards who had been listening to Umbridge’s conversation with the Minister. “We’ll go straight down, Mafalda, you’ll find everything you need in the courtroom. Good morning, Albert, aren’t you getting out?"
"Yes, of course,"
"What brings you up here, Runcorn?"
"Needed a quick word with,” Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, “Arthur Weasley. Someone said he was up on level one."
"Ah,” said Pius Thicknesse. “Has he been caught having contact with an Undesirable?"
"No,” said Harry, his throat dry. “No, nothing like that."
"Ah, well. It’s only a matter of time,” said Thicknesse. “If you ask me, the blood traitors are as bad as the Mudbloods. Good day, Runcorn."
"Good day, Minister."
"Will the old hag be interrogating Mudbloods all day, does anyone know?"
"Careful,"
"What, has she got magic ears as well as an eye, now?"
"Accio Locket."
"Undesirable Number One,” Harry muttered under his breath as he replaced Mr. Weasley’s folder and shut the drawer. He had an idea he knew who that was, and sure enough, as he straightened up and glanced around the office for fresh hiding places, he saw a poster of himself on the wall, with the words UNDESIRABLE NO. 1 emblazoned across his chest. A little pink note was stuck to it with a picture of a kitten in the corner. Harry moved across to read it and saw that Umbridge had written, “To be punished."
"by Rita Skeeter, bestselling author of Armando Dippet: Master or Moron?"
"I bet it sneaked up here from Experimental Charms, they’re so careless, remember that poisonous duck?"
"M-morning,"
"Ron, it’s me, Harry!"
"Harry! Blimey, I forgot what you looked like — why isn’t Hermione with you?"
"She had to go down to the courtrooms with Umbridge, she couldn’t refuse, and —"
". . . I quite understand what you’re saying, Wakanda, but I’m afraid I cannot be party to —"
"Oh, hello, Reg,” said Mr. Weasley, looking around at the sound of steady dripping from Ron’s robes. “Isn’t your wife in for questioning today? Er — what’s happened to you? Why are you so wet?"
"Yaxley’s office is raining,” said Ron. He addressed Mr. Weasley’s shoulder, and Harry felt sure he was scared that his father might recognize him if they looked directly into each other’s eyes. “I couldn’t stop it, so they’ve sent me to get Bernie — Pillsworth, I think they said —"
"Yes, a lot of offices have been raining lately,” said Mr. Weasley. “Did you try Meteolojinx Recanto? It worked for Bletchley."
"Meteolojinx Recanto?” whispered Ron. “No, I didn’t. Thanks, D — I mean, thanks, Arthur."
"One moment, Runcorn."
"I hear you laid information about Dirk Cresswell."
"Sorry?"
"Don’t pretend, Runcorn,” said Mr. Weasley fiercely. “You tracked down the wizard who faked his family tree, didn’t you?"
"I — so what if I did?"
"So Dirk Cresswell is ten times the wizard you are,” said Mr. Weasley quietly, as the lift sank ever lower. “And if he survives Azkaban, you’ll have to answer to him, not to mention his wife, his sons, and his friends —"
"Arthur,” Harry interrupted, “you know you’re being tracked, don’t you?"
"Is that a threat, Runcorn?"
"No,” said Harry, “it’s a fact! They’re watching your every move —"
"No, no, I’m half-blood, I’m half-blood, I tell you! My father was a wizard, he was, look him up, Arkie Alderton, he’s a well-known broomstick designer, look him up, I tell you — get your hands off me, get your hands off —"
"This is your final warning,” said Umbridge’s soft voice, magically magnified so that it sounded clearly over the man’s desperate screams. “If you struggle, you will be subjected to the Dementor’s Kiss."
"Take him away,"
"Next — Mary Cattermole,"
"Sit down,"
"You are Mary Elizabeth Cattermole?"
"Married to Reginald Cattermole of the Magical Maintenance Department?"
"I don’t know where he is, he was supposed to meet me here!"
"Mother to Maisie, Ellie, and Alfred Cattermole?"
"They’re frightened, they think I might not come home —"
"Spare us,” spat Yaxley. “The brats of Mudbloods do not stir our sympathies."
"I’m behind you,"
"A wand was taken from you upon your arrival at the Ministry today, Mrs. Cattermole,” Umbridge was saying. “Eight-and-three-quarter inches, cherry, unicorn-hair core. Do you recognize that description?"
"Could you please tell us from which witch or wizard you took that wand?"
"T-took?” sobbed Mrs. Cattermole. “I didn’t t-take it from anybody. I b-bought it when I was eleven years old. It — it — it — chose me."
"No,” said Umbridge, “no, I don’t think so, Mrs. Cattermole. Wands only choose witches or wizards. You are not a witch. I have your responses to the questionnaire that was sent to you here — Mafalda, pass them to me."
"That’s — that’s pretty, Dolores,"
"What?” snapped Umbridge, glancing down. “Oh yes — an old family heirloom,” she said, patting the locket lying on her large bosom. “The S stands for Selwyn. . . . I am related to the Selwyns. . . . Indeed, there are few pure-blood families to whom I am not related. . . . A pity,” she continued in a louder voice, flicking through Mrs. Cattermole’s questionnaire, “that the same cannot be said for you. ‘Parents’ professions: greengrocers.’"
"Stupefy!"
"Stupefy!"
"Harry!"
"Hermione, if you think I was going to sit here and let her pretend —"
"Harry, Mrs. Cattermole!"
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
"Get the Horcrux,"
"You?” she whispered, gazing into his face. “But — but Reg said you were the one who submitted my name for questioning!"
"Did I?” muttered Harry, tugging at the chains binding her arms. “Well, I’ve had a change of heart. Diffindo!” Nothing happened. “Hermione, how do I get rid of these chains?"
"Wait, I’m trying something up here —"
"Hermione, we’re surrounded by dementors!"
"I know that, Harry, but if she wakes up and the locket’s gone — I need to duplicate it — Geminio! There . . . That should fool her. . . ."
"Let’s see. . . . Relashio!"
"I don’t understand,"
"You’re going to leave here with us,” said Harry, pulling her to her feet. “Go home, grab your children, and get out, get out of the country if you’ve got to. Disguise yourselves and run. You’ve seen how it is, you won’t get anything like a fair hearing here."
"Harry,” said Hermione, “how are we going to get out of here with all those dementors outside the door?"
"Patronuses,” said Harry, pointing his wand at his own: The stag slowed and walked, still gleaming brightly, toward the door. “As many as we can muster; do yours, Hermione."
"Expec — Expecto patronum,"
"It’s the only spell she ever has trouble with,” Harry told a completely bemused Mrs. Cattermole. “Bit unfortunate, really . . . Come on, Hermione. . . ."
"Expecto patronum!"
"C’mon,"
"It’s been decided that you should all go home and go into hiding with your families,” Harry told the waiting Muggle-borns, who were dazzled by the light of the Patronuses and still cowering slightly. “Go abroad if you can. Just get well away from the Ministry. That’s the — er — new official position. Now, if you’ll just follow the Patronuses, you’ll be able to leave from the Atrium."
"Reg!” screamed Mrs. Cattermole, and she threw herself into Ron’s arms. “Runcorn let me out, he attacked Umbridge and Yaxley, and he’s told all of us to leave the country, I think we’d better do it, Reg, I really do, let’s hurry home and fetch the children and — why are you so wet?"
"Water,” muttered Ron, disengaging himself. “Harry, they know there are intruders inside the Ministry, something about a hole in Umbridge’s office door, I reckon we’ve got five minutes if that —"
"Harry, if we’re trapped here — !"
"We won’t be if we move fast,"
"Who’s got wands?"
"Okay, all of you who haven’t got wands need to attach yourself to somebody who has. We’ll need to be fast before they stop us. Come on."
"Level eight,” said the witch’s cool voice, “Atrium."
"Harry!” squeaked Hermione. “What are we going to — ?"
"STOP!” Harry thundered, and the powerful voice of Runcorn echoed through the Atrium: The wizards sealing the fireplaces froze. “Follow me,"
"What’s up, Albert?"
"This lot need to leave before you seal the exits,"
"We’ve been told to seal all exits and not let anyone —"
"Are you contradicting me?” Harry blustered. “Would you like me to have your family tree examined, like I had Dirk Cresswell’s?"
"Sorry!” gasped the balding wizard, backing away. “I didn’t mean nothing, Albert, but I thought . . . I thought they were in for questioning and . . ."
"Their blood is pure,” said Harry, and his deep voice echoed impressively through the hall. “Purer than many of yours, I daresay. Off you go,"
"Mary!"
"R-Reg?"
"Hey — what’s going on? What is this?"
"Seal the exit! SEAL IT!"
"He’s been helping Muggle-borns escape, Yaxley!"
"My wife! Who was that with my wife? What’s going on?"
"Come on!"
"Reg, I don’t understand —"
"Let go, I’m not your husband, you’ve got to go home!"
"LET’S GO!"
"What’s happened to him?"
"Splinched,"
"Harry, quickly, in my bag, there’s a small bottle labeled ‘Essence of Dittany’ —"
"Bag — right —"
"Quickly!"
"Accio Dittany!"
"He’s fainted,” said Hermione, who was also rather pale; she no longer looked like Mafalda, though her hair was still gray in places. “Unstopper it for me, Harry, my hands are shaking."
"Wow,"
"It’s all I feel safe doing,” said Hermione shakily. “There are spells that would put him completely right, but I daren’t try in case I do them wrong and cause more damage. . . . He’s lost so much blood already. . . ."
"How did he get hurt? I mean” — Harry shook his head, trying to clear it, to make sense of whatever had just taken place — “why are we here? I thought we were going back to Grimmauld Place?"
"Harry, I don’t think we’re going to be able to go back there."
"What d’you — ?"
"As we Disapparated, Yaxley caught hold of me and I couldn’t get rid of him, he was too strong, and he was still holding on when we arrived at Grimmauld Place, and then — well, I think he must have seen the door, and thought we were stopping there, so he slackened his grip and I managed to shake him off and I brought us here instead!"
"But then, where’s he? Hang on. . . . You don’t mean he’s at Grimmauld Place? He can’t get in there?"
"Harry, I think he can. I — I forced him to let go with a Revulsion Jinx, but I’d already taken him inside the Fidelius Charm’s protection. Since Dumbledore died, we’re Secret-Keepers, so I’ve given him the secret, haven’t I?"
"Harry, I’m sorry, I’m so sorry!"
"Don’t be stupid, it wasn’t your fault! If anything, it was mine. . . ."
"Umbridge had stuck it to her office door, to spy on people. I couldn’t leave it there . . . but that’s how they knew there were intruders."
"How d’you feel?"
"Lousy,” croaked Ron, wincing as he felt his injured arm. “Where are we?"
"In the woods where they held the Quidditch World Cup,” said Hermione. “I wanted somewhere enclosed, undercover, and this was —"
"— the first place you thought of,"
"D’you reckon we should move on?"
"I dunno."
"Let’s stay here for now,"
"Where are you going?"
"If we’re staying, we should put some protective enchantments around the place,"
"Salvio Hexia . . . Protego Totalum . . . Repello Muggletum . . . Muffliato . . . You could get out the tent, Harry. . . ."
"Tent?"
"In the bag!"
"In the . . . of course,"
"I thought this belonged to that bloke Perkins at the Ministry?"
"Apparently he didn’t want it back, his lumbago’s so bad,” said Hermione, now performing complicated figure-of-eight movements with her wand, “so Ron’s dad said I could borrow it. Erecto!"
"Cave Inimicum,” Hermione finished with a skyward flourish. “That’s as much as I can do. At the very least, we should know they’re coming, I can’t guarantee it will keep out Vol —"
"Don’t say the name!"
"I’m sorry,” Ron said, moaning a little as he raised himself to look at them, “but it feels like a — a jinx or something. Can’t we call him You-Know-Who — please?"
"Dumbledore said fear of a name —"
"In case you hadn’t noticed, mate, calling You-Know-Who by his name didn’t do Dumbledore much good in the end,” Ron snapped back. “Just — just show You-Know-Who some respect, will you?"
"Respect?"
"I’ll make some tea,"
"What d’you reckon happened to the Cattermoles?"
"With any luck, they’ll have got away,” said Hermione, clutching her hot mug for comfort. “As long as Mr. Cattermole had his wits about him, he’ll have transported Mrs. Cattermole by Side-Along-Apparition and they’ll be fleeing the country right now with their children. That’s what Harry told her to do."
"Blimey, I hope they escaped,” said Ron, leaning back on his pillows. The tea seemed to be doing him good; a little of his color had returned. “I didn’t get the feeling Reg Cattermole was all that quick-witted, though, the way everyone was talking to me when I was him. God, I hope they made it. . . . If they both end up in Azkaban because of us . . ."
"So, have you got it?"
"Got — got what?"
"What did we just go through all that for? The locket! Where’s the locket?"
"You got it?” shouted Ron, raising himself a little higher on his pillows. “No one tells me anything! Blimey, you could have mentioned it!"
"Well, we were running for our lives from the Death Eaters, weren’t we?” said Hermione. “Here."
"There isn’t any chance someone’s destroyed it since Kreacher had it?” asked Ron hopefully. “I mean, are we sure it’s still a Horcrux?"
"I think so,” said Hermione, taking it back from him and looking at it closely. “There’d be some sign of damage if it had been magically destroyed."
"I reckon Kreacher’s right,” said Harry. “We’re going to have to work out how to open this thing before we can destroy it."
"Can you feel it, though?"
"What d’you mean?"
"What are we going to do with it?"
"Keep it safe till we work out how to destroy it,"
"I think we should take it in turns to keep watch outside the tent,” he added to Hermione, standing up and stretching. “And we’ll need to think about some food as well. You stay there,"
"Give it to me, Gregorovitch."
"I have it not, I have it no more! It was, many years ago, stolen from me!"
"Do not lie to Lord Voldemort, Gregorovitch. He knows. . . . He always knows."
"Who was the thief, Gregorovitch?"
"I do not know, I never knew, a young man — no — please — PLEASE!"
"Harry!"
"Dream,” he said, sitting up quickly and attempting to meet Hermione’s glower with a look of innocence. “Must’ve dozed off, sorry."
"I know it was your scar! I can tell by the look on your face! You were looking into Vol —"
"Don’t say his name!"
"Fine,” retorted Hermione. “You-Know-Who’s mind, then!"
"I didn’t mean it to happen!” Harry said. “It was a dream! Can you control what you dream about, Hermione?"
"If you just learned to apply Occlumency —"
"He’s found Gregorovitch, Hermione, and I think he’s killed him, but before he killed him he read Gregorovitch’s mind and I saw —"
"I think I’d better take over the watch if you’re so tired you’re falling asleep,"
"I can finish the watch!"
"No, you’re obviously exhausted. Go and lie down."
"What’s You-Know-Who doing?"
"He found Gregorovitch. He had him tied up, he was torturing him."
"How’s Gregorovitch supposed to make him a new wand if he’s tied up?"
"I dunno. . . . It’s weird, isn’t it?"
"He wanted something from Gregorovitch,” Harry said, eyes still closed tight. “He asked him to hand it over, but Gregorovitch said it had been stolen from him . . . and then . . . then . . ."
"He read Gregorovitch’s mind, and I saw this young bloke perched on a windowsill, and he fired a curse at Gregorovitch and jumped out of sight. He stole it, he stole whatever You-Know-Who’s after. And I . . . I think I’ve seen him somewhere. . . ."
"Couldn’t you see what the thief was holding?"
"No . . . it must’ve been something small."
"Harry?"
"Harry, you don’t reckon You-Know-Who’s after something else to turn into a Horcrux?"
"I don’t know,” said Harry slowly. “Maybe. But wouldn’t it be dangerous for him to make another one? Didn’t Hermione say he had pushed his soul to the limit already?"
"Yeah, but maybe he doesn’t know that."
"Yeah . . . maybe,"
"But you can make a brilliant Patronus!"
"I couldn’t . . . make one,” he panted, clutching the stitch in his side. “Wouldn’t . . . come."
"So we still haven’t got any food."
"Shut up, Ron,” snapped Hermione. “Harry, what happened? Why do you think you couldn’t make your Patronus? You managed perfectly yesterday!"
"I don’t know."
"What?” he snarled at Hermione. “I’m starving! All I’ve had since I bled half to death is a couple of toadstools!"
"You go and fight your way through the dementors, then,"
"I would, but my arm’s in a sling, in case you hadn’t noticed!"
"That’s convenient."
"And what’s that supposed to — ?"
"Of course!” cried Hermione, clapping a hand to her forehead and startling both of them into silence. “Harry, give me the locket! Come on,” she said impatiently, clicking her fingers at him when he did not react, “the Horcrux, Harry, you’re still wearing it!"
"Better?"
"Yeah, loads better!"
"Harry,” she said, crouching down in front of him and using the kind of voice he associated with visiting the very sick, “you don’t think you’ve been possessed, do you?"
"What? No!” he said defensively. “I remember everything we’ve done while I’ve been wearing it. I wouldn’t know what I’d done if I’d been possessed, would I? Ginny told me there were times when she couldn’t remember anything."
"Hmm,” said Hermione, looking down at the heavy gold locket. “Well, maybe we ought not to wear it. We can just keep it in the tent."
"We are not leaving that Horcrux lying around,” Harry stated firmly. “If we lose it, if it gets stolen —"
"Oh, all right, all right,” said Hermione, and she placed it around her own neck and tucked it out of sight down the front of her shirt. “But we’ll take turns wearing it, so nobody keeps it on too long."
"Great,” said Ron irritably, “and now we’ve sorted that out, can we please get some food?"
"Fine, but we’ll go somewhere else to find it,” said Hermione with half a glance at Harry. “There’s no point staying where we know dementors are swooping around."
"It’s not stealing, is it?” asked Hermione in a troubled voice, as they devoured scrambled eggs on toast. “Not if I left some money under the chicken coop?"
"’Er-my-nee, ’oo worry ’oo much. ’Elax!"
"So where next?"
"Yeah, let’s go to Albania. Shouldn’t take more than an afternoon to search an entire country,"
"There can’t be anything there. He’d already made five of his Horcruxes before he went into exile, and Dumbledore was certain the snake is the sixth,” said Hermione. “We know the snake’s not in Albania, it’s usually with Vol —"
"Didn’t I ask you to stop saying that?"
"Fine! The snake is usually with You-Know-Who — happy?"
"Not particularly."
"I can’t see him hiding anything at Borgin and Burkes,” said Harry, who had made this point many times before, but said it again simply to break the nasty silence. “Borgin and Burke were experts at Dark objects, they would’ve recognized a Horcrux straightaway."
"I still reckon he might have hidden something at Hogwarts."
"But Dumbledore would have found it, Harry!"
"Dumbledore said in front of me that he never assumed he knew all of Hogwarts’s secrets. I’m telling you, if there was one place Vol —"
"Oi!"
"YOU-KNOW-WHO, then!” Harry shouted, goaded past endurance. “If there was one place that was really important to You-Know-Who, it was Hogwarts!"
"Oh, come on,” scoffed Ron. “His school?"
"Yeah, his school! It was his first real home, the place that meant he was special; it meant everything to him, and even after he left —"
"This is You-Know-Who we’re talking about, right? Not you?"
"You told us that You-Know-Who asked Dumbledore to give him a job after he left,"
"That’s right,"
"And Dumbledore thought he only wanted to come back to try and find something, probably another founder’s object, to make into another Horcrux?"
"Yeah,"
"But he didn’t get the job, did he?” said Hermione. “So he never got the chance to find a founder’s object there and hide it in the school!"
"Okay, then,” said Harry, defeated. “Forget Hogwarts."
"We could try digging in the foundations?"
"He wouldn’t have hidden a Horcrux here,"
"What? What did you see?"
"A face,” muttered Harry, every time. “The same face. The thief who stole from Gregorovitch."
"My mother,” said Ron one night, as they sat in the tent on a riverbank in Wales, “can make good food appear out of thin air."
"Your mother can’t produce food out of thin air,” said Hermione. “No one can. Food is the first of the five Principal Exceptions to Gamp’s Law of Elemental Transfigur —"
"Oh, speak English, can’t you?"
"It’s impossible to make good food out of nothing! You can Summon it if you know where it is, you can transform it, you can increase the quantity if you’ve already got some —"
"Well, don’t bother increasing this, it’s disgusting,"
"Harry caught the fish and I did my best with it! I notice I’m always the one who ends up sorting out the food, because I’m a girl, I suppose!"
"No, it’s because you’re supposed to be the best at magic!"
"You can do the cooking tomorrow, Ron, you can find the ingredients and try and charm them into something worth eating, and I’ll sit here and pull faces and moan and you can see how you —"
"Shut up!” said Harry, leaping to his feet and holding up both hands. “Shut up now!"
"How can you side with him, he hardly ever does the cook —"
"Hermione, be quiet, I can hear someone!"
"You cast the Muffliato charm over us, right?"
"I did everything,” she whispered back, “Muffliato, Muggle-Repelling and Disillusionment Charms, all of it. They shouldn’t be able to hear or see us, whoever they are."
"There ought to be a few salmon in here, or d’you reckon it’s too early in the season? Accio Salmon!"
"Here, Griphook, Gornuk."
"Thank you,"
"So, you three have been on the run how long?"
"Six weeks . . . seven . . . I forget,” said the tired man. “Met up with Griphook in the first couple of days and joined forces with Gornuk not long after. Nice to have a bit of company.” There was a pause, while knives scraped plates and tin mugs were picked up and replaced on the ground. “What made you leave, Ted?"
"Knew they were coming for me,” replied mellow-voiced Ted, and Harry suddenly knew who he was: Tonks’s father. “Heard Death Eaters were in the area last week and decided I’d better run for it. Refused to register as a Muggle-born on principle, see, so I knew it was a matter of time, knew I’d have to leave in the end. My wife should be okay, she’s pure-blood. And then I met Dean here, what, a few days ago, son?"
"Yeah,"
"Muggle-born, eh?"
"Not sure,” said Dean. “My dad left my mum when I was a kid. I’ve got no proof he was a wizard, though."
"I’ve got to say, Dirk, I’m surprised to run into you. Pleased, but surprised. Word was you’d been caught."
"I was,” said Dirk. “I was halfway to Azkaban when I made a break for it, Stunned Dawlish, and nicked his broom. It was easier than you’d think; I don’t reckon he’s quite right at the moment. Might be Confunded. If so, I’d like to shake the hand of the witch or wizard who did it, probably saved my life."
"And where do you two fit in? I, er, had the impression the goblins were for You-Know-Who, on the whole."
"You had a false impression,” said the higher-voiced of the goblins. “We take no sides. This is a wizards’ war."
"How come you’re in hiding, then?"
"I deemed it prudent,” said the deeper-voiced goblin. “Having refused what I considered an impertinent request, I could see that my personal safety was in jeopardy."
"What did they ask you to do?"
"Duties ill-befitting the dignity of my race,” replied the goblin, his voice rougher and less human as he said it. “I am not a house-elf."
"What about you, Griphook?"
"Similar reasons,” said the higher-voiced goblin. “Gringotts is no longer under the sole control of my race. I recognize no Wizarding master."
"What’s the joke?"
"He said,” replied Dirk, “that there are things wizards don’t recognize, either."
"I don’t get it,"
"I had my small revenge before I left,"
"Good man — goblin, I should say,” amended Ted hastily. “Didn’t manage to lock a Death Eater up in one of the old high-security vaults, I suppose?"
"If I had, the sword would not have helped him break out,"
"Dean and I are still missing something here,"
"So is Severus Snape, though he does not know it,"
"Didn’t you hear about that, Ted?” asked Dirk. “About the kids who tried to steal Gryffindor’s sword out of Snape’s office at Hogwarts?"
"Never heard a word,” said Ted. “Not in the Prophet, was it?"
"Hardly,” chortled Dirk. “Griphook here told me, he heard about it from Bill Weasley who works for the bank. One of the kids who tried to take the sword was Bill’s younger sister."
"She and a couple of friends got into Snape’s office and smashed open the glass case where he was apparently keeping the sword. Snape caught them as they were trying to smuggle it down the staircase."
"Ah, God bless ’em,” said Ted. “What did they think, that they’d be able to use the sword on You-Know-Who? Or on Snape himself?"
"Well, whatever they thought they were going to do with it, Snape decided the sword wasn’t safe where it was,” said Dirk. “Couple of days later, once he’d got the say-so from You-Know-Who, I imagine, he sent it down to London to be kept in Gringotts instead."
"I’m still not seeing the joke,"
"It’s a fake,"
"The sword of Gryffindor!"
"Oh yes. It is a copy — an excellent copy, it is true — but it was Wizard-made. The original was forged centuries ago by goblins and had certain properties only goblin-made armor possesses. Wherever the genuine sword of Gryffindor is, it is not in a vault at Gringotts bank."
"I see,” said Ted. “And I take it you didn’t bother telling the Death Eaters this?"
"I saw no reason to trouble them with the information,"
"What happened to Ginny and the others? The ones who tried to steal it?"
"Oh, they were punished, and cruelly,"
"They’re okay, though?” asked Ted quickly. “I mean, the Weasleys don’t need any more of their kids injured, do they?"
"They suffered no serious injury, as far as I am aware,"
"Lucky for them,” said Ted. “With Snape’s track record I suppose we should just be glad they’re still alive."
"You believe that story, then, do you, Ted?” asked Dirk. “You believe Snape killed Dumbledore?"
"’Course I do,” said Ted. “You’re not going to sit there and tell me you think Potter had anything to do with it?"
"Hard to know what to believe these days,"
"I know Harry Potter,” said Dean. “And I reckon he’s the real thing — the Chosen One, or whatever you want to call it."
"Yeah, there’s a lot would like to believe he’s that, son,” said Dirk, “me included. But where is he? Run for it, by the looks of things. You’d think, if he knew anything we don’t, or had anything special going for him, he’d be out there now fighting, rallying resistance, instead of hiding. And you know, the Prophet made a pretty good case against him —"
"The Prophet?” scoffed Ted. “You deserve to be lied to if you’re still reading that muck, Dirk. You want the facts, try the Quibbler."
"The Quibbler? That lunatic rag of Xeno Lovegood’s?"
"It’s not so lunatic these days,” said Ted. “You want to give it a look. Xeno is printing all the stuff the Prophet’s ignoring, not a single mention of Crumple-Horned Snorkacks in the last issue. How long they’ll let him get away with it, mind, I don’t know. But Xeno says, front page of every issue, that any wizard who’s against You-Know-Who ought to make helping Harry Potter their number-one priority."
"Hard to help a boy who’s vanished off the face of the earth,"
"Listen, the fact that they haven’t caught him yet’s one hell of an achievement,” said Ted. “I’d take tips from him gladly; it’s what we’re trying to do, stay free, isn’t it?"
"Yeah, well, you’ve got a point there,” said Dirk heavily. “With the whole of the Ministry and all their informers looking for him I’d have expected him to be caught by now. Mind, who’s to say they haven’t already caught and killed him without publicizing it?"
"Ah, don’t say that, Dirk,"
"Ginny — the sword —"
"I know!"
"Here . . . we . . . are . . ."
"If somebody swapped the real sword for the fake while it was in Dumbledore’s office,” she panted, as they propped the painting against the side of the tent, “Phineas Nigellus would have seen it happen, he hangs right beside the case!"
"Unless he was asleep,"
"Er — Phineas? Phineas Nigellus?"
"Phineas Nigellus?” said Hermione again. “Professor Black? Please could we talk to you? Please?"
"‘Please’ always helps,"
"Obscuro!"
"What — how dare — what are you — ?"
"I’m very sorry, Professor Black,” said Hermione, “but it’s a necessary precaution!"
"Remove this foul addition at once! Remove it, I say! You are ruining a great work of art! Where am I? What is going on?"
"Never mind where we are,"
"Can that possibly be the voice of the elusive Mr. Potter?"
"Maybe,” said Harry, knowing that this would keep Phineas Nigellus’s interest. “We’ve got a couple of questions to ask you — about the sword of Gryffindor."
"Ah,” said Phineas Nigellus, now turning his head this way and that in an effort to catch sight of Harry, “yes. That silly girl acted most unwisely there —"
"Shut up about my sister,"
"Who else is here?” he asked, turning his head from side to side. “Your tone displeases me! The girl and her friends were foolhardy in the extreme. Thieving from the headmaster!"
"They weren’t thieving,” said Harry. “That sword isn’t Snape’s."
"It belongs to Professor Snape’s school,” said Phineas Nigellus. “Exactly what claim did the Weasley girl have upon it? She deserved her punishment, as did the idiot Longbottom and the Lovegood oddity!"
"Neville is not an idiot and Luna is not an oddity!"
"Where am I?” repeated Phineas Nigellus, starting to wrestle with the blindfold again. “Where have you brought me? Why have you removed me from the house of my forebears?"
"Never mind that! How did Snape punish Ginny, Neville, and Luna?"
"Professor Snape sent them into the Forbidden Forest, to do some work for the oaf, Hagrid."
"Hagrid’s not an oaf!"
"And Snape might’ve thought that was a punishment,” said Harry, “but Ginny, Neville, and Luna probably had a good laugh with Hagrid. The Forbidden Forest . . . they’ve faced plenty worse than the Forbidden Forest, big deal!"
"What we really wanted to know, Professor Black, is whether anyone else has, um, taken out the sword at all? Maybe it’s been taken away for cleaning or — or something?"
"Muggle-borns,” he said. “Goblin-made armor does not require cleaning, simple girl. Goblins’ silver repels mundane dirt, imbibing only that which strengthens it."
"Don’t call Hermione simple,"
"I grow weary of contradiction,” said Phineas Nigellus. “Perhaps it is time for me to return to the headmaster’s office?"
"Dumbledore! Can’t you bring us Dumbledore?"
"I beg your pardon?"
"Professor Dumbledore’s portrait — couldn’t you bring him along, here, into yours?"
"Evidently it is not only Muggle-borns who are ignorant, Potter. The portraits of Hogwarts may commune with each other, but they cannot travel outside the castle except to visit a painting of themselves hanging elsewhere. Dumbledore cannot come here with me, and after the treatment I have received at your hands, I can assure you that I shall not be making a return visit!"
"Professor Black,” said Hermione, “couldn’t you just tell us, please, when was the last time the sword was taken out of its case? Before Ginny took it out, I mean?"
"I believe that the last time I saw the sword of Gryffindor leave its case was when Professor Dumbledore used it to break open a ring."
"Well, good night to you,"
"Wait! Have you told Snape you saw this?"
"Professor Snape has more important things on his mind than the many eccentricities of Albus Dumbledore. Good-bye, Potter!"
"Harry!"
"I know!"
"The sword can destroy Horcruxes! Goblin-made blades imbibe only that which strengthen them — Harry, that sword’s impregnated with basilisk venom!"
"And Dumbledore didn’t give it to me because he still needed it, he wanted to use it on the locket —"
"— and he must have realized they wouldn’t let you have it if he put it in his will —"
"— so he made a copy —"
"— and put a fake in the glass case —"
"— and he left the real one — where?"
"Think!” whispered Hermione. “Think! Where would he have left it?"
"Not at Hogwarts,"
"Somewhere in Hogsmeade?"
"The Shrieking Shack?” said Harry. “Nobody ever goes in there."
"But Snape knows how to get in, wouldn’t that be a bit risky?"
"Dumbledore trusted Snape,"
"Not enough to tell him that he had swapped the swords,"
"Yeah, you’re right!” said Harry, and he felt even more cheered at the thought that Dumbledore had had some reservations, however faint, about Snape’s trustworthiness. “So, would he have hidden the sword well away from Hogsmeade, then? What d’you reckon, Ron? Ron?"
"Oh, remembered me, have you?"
"What?"
"You two carry on. Don’t let me spoil your fun."
"What’s the problem?"
"Problem? There’s no problem,” said Ron, still refusing to look at Harry. “Not according to you, anyway."
"Well, you’ve obviously got a problem,” said Harry. “Spit it out, will you?"
"All right, I’ll spit it out. Don’t expect me to skip up and down the tent because there’s some other damn thing we’ve got to find. Just add it to the list of stuff you don’t know."
"I don’t know?” repeated Harry. “I don’t know?"
"It’s not like I’m not having the time of my life here,” said Ron, “you know, with my arm mangled and nothing to eat and freezing my backside off every night. I just hoped, you know, after we’d been running round a few weeks, we’d have achieved something."
"Ron,"
"I thought you knew what you’d signed up for,"
"Yeah, I thought I did too."
"So what part of it isn’t living up to your expectations?” asked Harry. Anger was coming to his defense now. “Did you think we’d be staying in five-star hotels? Finding a Horcrux every other day? Did you think you’d be back to Mummy by Christmas?"
"We thought you knew what you were doing!” shouted Ron, standing up, and his words pierced Harry like scalding knives. “We thought Dumbledore had told you what to do, we thought you had a real plan!"
"Ron!"
"Well, sorry to let you down,” said Harry, his voice quite calm even though he felt hollow, inadequate. “I’ve been straight with you from the start, I told you everything Dumbledore told me. And in case you haven’t noticed, we’ve found one Horcrux —"
"Yeah, and we’re about as near getting rid of it as we are to finding the rest of them — nowhere effing near, in other words!"
"Take off the locket, Ron,” Hermione said, her voice unusually high. “Please take it off. You wouldn’t be talking like this if you hadn’t been wearing it all day."
"Yeah, he would,” said Harry, who did not want excuses made for Ron. “D’you think I haven’t noticed the two of you whispering behind my back? D’you think I didn’t guess you were thinking this stuff?"
"Harry, we weren’t —"
"Don’t lie!” Ron hurled at her. “You said it too, you said you were disappointed, you said you’d thought he had a bit more to go on than —"
"I didn’t say it like that — Harry, I didn’t!"
"So why are you still here?"
"Search me,"
"Go home then,"
"Yeah, maybe I will!” shouted Ron, and he took several steps toward Harry, who did not back away. “Didn’t you hear what they said about my sister? But you don’t give a rat’s fart, do you, it’s only the Forbidden Forest, Harry I’ve-Faced-Worse Potter doesn’t care what happens to her in here — well, I do, all right, giant spiders and mental stuff —"
"I was only saying — she was with the others, they were with Hagrid —"
"Yeah, I get it, you don’t care! And what about the rest of my family, ‘the Weasleys don’t need another kid injured,’ did you hear that?"
"Yeah, I —"
"Not bothered what it meant, though?"
"Ron!” said Hermione, forcing her way between them. “I don’t think it means anything new has happened, anything we don’t know about; think, Ron, Bill’s already scarred, plenty of people must have seen that George has lost an ear by now, and you’re supposed to be on your deathbed with spattergroit, I’m sure that’s all he meant —"
"Oh, you’re sure, are you? Right then, well, I won’t bother myself about them. It’s all right for you two, isn’t it, with your parents safely out of the way —"
"My parents are dead!"
"And mine could be going the same way!"
"Then GO!” roared Harry. “Go back to them, pretend you’ve got over your spattergroit and Mummy’ll be able to feed you up and —"
"Protego!"
"Leave the Horcrux,"
"What are you doing?"
"What do you mean?"
"Are you staying, or what?"
"I . . .” She looked anguished. “Yes — yes, I’m staying. Ron, we said we’d go with Harry, we said we’d help —"
"I get it. You choose him."
"Ron, no — please — come back, come back!"
"He’s g-g-gone! Disapparated!"
"We thought you knew what you were doing!"
"Hermione?"
"Hmm?"
"Hermione, I’ve been thinking, and —"
"Harry, could you help me with something?"
"Look at that symbol,"
"I never took Ancient Runes, Hermione."
"I know that, but it isn’t a rune and it’s not in the syllabary, either. All along I thought it was a picture of an eye, but I don’t think it is! It’s been inked in, look, somebody’s drawn it there, it isn’t really part of the book. Think, have you ever seen it before?"
"No . . . No, wait a moment.” Harry looked closer. “Isn’t it the same symbol Luna’s dad was wearing round his neck?"
"Well, that’s what I thought too!"
"Then it’s Grindelwald’s mark."
"What?"
"Krum told me . . ."
"Grindelwald’s mark?"
"I’ve never heard that Grindelwald had a mark. There’s no mention of it in anything I’ve ever read about him."
"Well, like I say, Krum reckoned that symbol was carved on a wall at Durmstrang, and Grindelwald put it there."
"That’s very odd. If it’s a symbol of Dark Magic, what’s it doing in a book of children’s stories?"
"Yeah, it is weird,” said Harry. “And you’d think Scrimgeour would have recognized it. He was Minister, he ought to have been expert on Dark stuff."
"I know. . . . Perhaps he thought it was an eye, just like I did. All the other stories have little pictures over the titles."
"Hermione?"
"Hmm?"
"I’ve been thinking. I — I want to go to Godric’s Hollow."
"Yes,” she said. “Yes, I’ve been wondering that too. I really think we’ll have to."
"Did you hear me right?"
"Of course I did. You want to go to Godric’s Hollow. I agree, I think we should. I mean, I can’t think of anywhere else it could be either. It’ll be dangerous, but the more I think about it, the more likely it seems it’s there."
"Er — what’s there?"
"Well, the sword, Harry! Dumbledore must have known you’d want to go back there, and I mean, Godric’s Hollow is Godric Gryffindor’s birthplace —"
"Really? Gryffindor came from Godric’s Hollow?"
"Harry, did you ever even open A History of Magic?"
"Erm,” he said, smiling for what felt like the first time in months: The muscles in his face felt oddly stiff. “I might’ve opened it, you know, when I bought it . . . just the once. . . ."
"Well, as the village is named after him I’d have thought you might have made the connection,” said Hermione. She sounded much more like her old self than she had done of late; Harry half expected her to announce that she was off to the library. “There’s a bit about the village in A History of Magic, wait . . ."
"You and your parents aren’t mentioned,” Hermione said, closing the book, “because Professor Bagshot doesn’t cover anything later than the end of the nineteenth century. But you see? Godric’s Hollow, Godric Gryffindor, Gryffindor’s sword; don’t you think Dumbledore would have expected you to make the connection?"
"Oh yeah . . ."
"Remember what Muriel said?"
"Who?"
"You know,” he hesitated: He did not want to say Ron’s name. “Ginny’s great-aunt. At the wedding. The one who said you had skinny ankles."
"Oh,"
"She said Bathilda Bagshot still lives in Godric’s Hollow."
"Bathilda Bagshot,” murmured Hermione, running her index finger over Bathilda’s embossed name on the front cover of A History of Magic. “Well, I suppose —"
"What?” he said, half angry, half relieved. “What did you do that for? I thought you’d seen a Death Eater unzipping the tent, at least —"
"Harry, what if Bathilda’s got the sword? What if Dumbledore entrusted it to her?"
"gaga."
"Yeah, he might have done! So, are we going to go to Godric’s Hollow?"
"Yes, but we’ll have to think it through carefully, Harry.” She was sitting up now, and Harry could tell that the prospect of having a plan again had lifted her mood as much as his. “We’ll need to practice Disapparating together under the Invisibility Cloak for a start, and perhaps Disillusionment Charms would be sensible too, unless you think we should go the whole hog and use Polyjuice Potion? In that case we’ll need to collect hair from somebody. I actually think we’d better do that, Harry, the thicker our disguises the better. . . ."
"All this snow!” Hermione whispered beneath the cloak. “Why didn’t we think of snow? After all our precautions, we’ll leave prints! We’ll just have to get rid of them — you go in front, I’ll do it —"
"Let’s take off the Cloak,” said Harry, and when she looked frightened, “Oh, come on, we don’t look like us and there’s no one around."
"Harry, I think it’s Christmas Eve!"
"Is it?"
"I’m sure it is,” said Hermione, her eyes upon the church. “They . . . they’ll be in there, won’t they? Your mum and dad? I can see the graveyard behind it."
"Harry, look!"
"C’mon,"
"Look at this, it’s an Abbott, could be some long-lost relation of Hannah’s!"
"Keep your voice down,"
"Harry, here!"
"Is it — ?"
"No, but look!"
"Are you sure he never mentioned — ?"
"No,” said Harry curtly, then, “let’s keep looking,"
"Here!” cried Hermione again a few moments later from out of the darkness. “Oh no, sorry! I thought it said Potter."
"Harry, come back a moment."
"What?"
"Look at this!"
"Harry, that’s the mark in the book!"
"Yeah . . . it could be. . . ."
"It says Ig — Ignotus, I think. . . ."
"I’m going to keep looking for my parents, all right?"
"Harry, they’re here . . . right here."
"‘The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death’ . . .” A horrible thought came to him, and with it a kind of panic. “Isn’t that a Death Eater idea? Why is that there?"
"It doesn’t mean defeating death in the way the Death Eaters mean it, Harry,” said Hermione, her voice gentle. “It means . . . you know . . . living beyond death. Living after death."
"What’s wrong?"
"There’s someone there. Someone watching us. I can tell. There, over by the bushes."
"Are you sure?"
"I saw something move, I could have sworn I did. . . ."
"We look like Muggles,"
"Muggles who’ve just been laying flowers on your parents’ grave! Harry, I’m sure there’s someone over there!"
"It’s a cat,” said Harry, after a second or two, “or a bird. If it was a Death Eater we’d be dead by now. But let’s get out of here, and we can put the Cloak back on."
"Let’s go this way,"
"How are we going to find Bathilda’s house?” asked Hermione, who was shivering a little and kept glancing back over her shoulder. “Harry? What do you think? Harry?"
"Harry —"
"Look. . . . Look at it, Hermione. . . ."
"I don’t . . . oh!"
"I wonder why nobody’s ever rebuilt it?"
"Maybe you can’t rebuild it?” Harry replied. “Maybe it’s like the injuries from Dark Magic and you can’t repair the damage?"
"You’re not going to go inside? It looks unsafe, it might — oh, Harry, look!"
"They shouldn’t have written on the sign!"
"It’s brilliant. I’m glad they did. I . . ."
"How does she know?"
"Are you Bathilda?"
"Bathilda?"
"Harry, I’m not sure about this,"
"Look at the size of her; I think we could overpower her if we had to,” said Harry. “Listen, I should have told you, I knew she wasn’t all there. Muriel called her ‘gaga.’"
"Come!"
"It’s okay,"
"Let me do that,"
"Tergeo"
"Mrs. — Miss — Bagshot?” he said, and his voice shook slightly. “Who is this?"
"Miss Bagshot?"
"Who is this person?"
"Do you know who this is?” he repeated in a much slower and louder voice than usual. “This man? Do you know him? What’s he called?"
"Who is this man?"
"Harry, what are you doing?"
"This picture, Hermione, it’s the thief, the thief who stole from Gregorovitch! Please!” he said to Bathilda. “Who is this?"
"Why did you ask us to come with you, Mrs. — Miss — Bagshot?” asked Hermione, raising her own voice. “Was there something you wanted to tell us?"
"You want us to leave?"
"Oh, right . . . Hermione, I think she wants me to go upstairs with her."
"All right,” said Hermione, “let’s go."
"She wants me to go with her, alone."
"Why?"
"Maybe Dumbledore told her to give the sword to me, and only to me?"
"Do you really think she knows who you are?"
"Yes,” said Harry, looking down into the milky eyes fixed upon his own, “I think she does."
"Well, okay then, but be quick, Harry."
"Lead the way,"
"Lumos,"
"You are Potter?"
"Yes, I am."
"Have you got anything for me?"
"Have you got anything for me?"
"Have you got anything for me?"
"Over here,"
"What is it?"
"There,"
"Harry?"
"No!"
"Yes,” whispered the voice. “Yesss . . . hold you . . . hold you . . ."
"Accio . . . Accio Wand . . ."
"He’s coming! Hermione, he’s coming!"
"Confringo!"
"Nice costume, mister!"
"Lily, take Harry and go! It’s him! Go! Run! I’ll hold him off!"
"Avada Kedavra!"
"Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!"
"Stand aside, you silly girl . . . stand aside, now."
"Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead —"
"This is my last warning —"
"Not Harry! Please . . . have mercy . . . have mercy. . . . Not Harry! Not Harry! Please — I’ll do anything —"
"Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!"
"Avada Kedavra!"
"No,"
"No . . ."
"No . . ."
"Harry, it’s all right, you’re all right!"
"No . . . I dropped it. . . . I dropped it. . . ."
"Harry, it’s okay, wake up, wake up!"
"Harry,” Hermione whispered. “Do you feel all — all right?"
"Yes,"
"We got away."
"Yes,” said Hermione. “I had to use a Hover Charm to get you into your bunk, I couldn’t lift you. You’ve been . . . Well, you haven’t been quite . . ."
"You’ve been ill,” she finished. “Quite ill."
"How long ago did we leave?"
"Hours ago. It’s nearly morning."
"And I’ve been . . . what, unconscious?"
"Not exactly,” said Hermione uncomfortably. “You’ve been shouting and moaning and . . . things,"
"I couldn’t get the Horcrux off you,” Hermione said, and he knew she wanted to change the subject. “It was stuck, stuck to your chest. You’ve got a mark; I’m sorry, I had to use a Severing Charm to get it away. The snake bit you too, but I’ve cleaned the wound and put some dittany on it. . . ."
"Where’ve you put the Horcrux?"
"In my bag. I think we should keep it off for a while."
"We shouldn’t have gone to Godric’s Hollow. It’s my fault, it’s all my fault, Hermione, I’m sorry."
"It’s not your fault. I wanted to go too; I really thought Dumbledore might have left the sword there for you."
"Yeah, well . . . we got that wrong, didn’t we?"
"What happened, Harry? What happened when she took you upstairs? Was the snake hiding somewhere? Did it just come out and kill her and attack you?"
"No,” he said. “She was the snake . . . or the snake was her . . . all along."
"W-what?"
"Bathilda must’ve been dead a while. The snake was . . . was inside her. You-Know-Who put it there in Godric’s Hollow, to wait. You were right. He knew I’d go back."
"The snake was inside her?"
"Lupin said there would be magic we’d never imagined,” Harry said. “She didn’t want to talk in front of you, because it was Parseltongue, all Parseltongue, and I didn’t realize, but of course I could understand her. Once we were up in the room, the snake sent a message to You-Know-Who, I heard it happen inside my head, I felt him get excited, he said to keep me there . . . and then . . ."
". . . she changed, changed into the snake, and attacked."
"It wasn’t supposed to kill me, just keep me there till You-Know-Who came."
"Harry, no, I’m sure you ought to rest!"
"You’re the one who needs sleep. No offense, but you look terrible. I’m fine. I’ll keep watch for a while. Where’s my wand?"
"Where’s my wand, Hermione?"
"Harry . . ."
"Where’s my wand?"
"Mend it. Please."
"Harry, I don’t think, when it’s broken like this —"
"Please, Hermione, try!"
"R-Reparo."
"Lumos!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Harry,” Hermione whispered so quietly he could hardly hear her. “I’m so, so sorry. I think it was me. As we were leaving, you know, the snake was coming for us, and so I cast a Blasting Curse, and it rebounded everywhere, and it must have — must have hit —"
"It was an accident,” said Harry mechanically. He felt empty, stunned. “We’ll — we’ll find a way to repair it."
"Harry, I don’t think we’re going to be able to,” said Hermione, the tears trickling down her face. “Remember . . . remember Ron? When he broke his wand, crashing the car? It was never the same again, he had to get a new one."
"Well,” he said, in a falsely matter-of-fact voice, “well, I’ll just borrow yours for now, then. While I keep watch."
"Harry?"
"Thanks,"
"Do you mind if I talk to you?"
"No,"
"Harry, you wanted to know who that man in the picture was. Well . . . I’ve got the book."
"Where — how — ?"
"It was in Bathilda’s sitting room, just lying there. . . . This note was sticking out of the top of it."
"‘Dear Batty, Thanks for your help. Here’s a copy of the book, hope you like it. You said everything, even if you don’t remember it. Rita.’ I think it must have arrived while the real Bathilda was alive, but perhaps she wasn’t in any fit state to read it?"
"No, she probably wasn’t."
"You’re still really angry at me, aren’t you?"
"No,” he said quietly. “No, Hermione, I know it was an accident. You were trying to get us out of there alive, and you were incredible. I’d be dead if you hadn’t been there to help me."
"Grindelwald?"
"The Greater Good."
"Dogbreath"
"Dogbreath"
"care"
"He were a head case, that Aberforth,” says Enid Smeek, whose family lived on the outskirts of Godric’s Hollow at that time. “Ran wild. ’Course, with his mum and dad gone you’d have felt sorry for him, only he kept chucking goat dung at my head. I don’t think Albus was fussed about him, I never saw them together, anyway."
"Dogbreath” Doge, could be counted upon to believe in the story of her “ill health."
"The fire’s lit, but the cauldron’s empty,” as Ivor Dillonsby put it to me, or, in Enid Smeek’s slightly earthier phrase, “She’s nutty as squirrel poo."
"frail” and “delicate."
"traveled abroad for some months."
"He seemed a charming boy to me,” babbles Bathilda, “whatever he became later. Naturally I introduced him to poor Albus, who was missing the company of lads his own age. The boys took to each other at once."
"Yes, even after they’d spent all day in discussion — both such brilliant young boys, they got on like a cauldron on fire — I’d sometimes hear an owl tapping at Gellert’s bedroom window, delivering a letter from Albus! An idea would have struck him, and he had to let Gellert know immediately!"
"It was poor little Ariana dying, I think, that did it,"
"Albus was beside himself at Ariana’s death. It was so dreadful for those two brothers. They had lost everybody except each other. No wonder tempers ran a little high. Aberforth blamed Albus, you know, as people will under these dreadful circumstances. But Aberforth always talked a little madly, poor boy. All the same, breaking Albus’s nose at the funeral was not decent. It would have destroyed Kendra to see her sons fighting like that, across her daughter’s body. A shame Gellert could not have stayed for the funeral. . . . He would have been a comfort to Albus, at least. . . ."
"Batty"
"for the greater good"
"Harry —"
"Harry.” She seemed to have heard his thoughts. “Listen to me. It — it doesn’t make very nice reading —"
"Yeah, you could say that —"
"— but don’t forget, Harry, this is Rita Skeeter writing."
"You did read that letter to Grindelwald, didn’t you?"
"Yes, I — I did.” She hesitated, looking upset, cradling her tea in her cold hands. “I think that’s the worst bit. I know Bathilda thought it was all just talk, but ‘For the Greater Good’ became Grindelwald’s slogan, his justification for all the atrocities he committed later. And . . . from that . . . it looks like Dumbledore gave him the idea. They say ‘For the Greater Good’ was even carved over the entrance to Nurmengard."
"What’s Nurmengard?"
"The prison Grindelwald had built to hold his opponents. He ended up in there himself, once Dumbledore had caught him. Anyway, it’s — it’s an awful thought that Dumbledore’s ideas helped Grindelwald rise to power. But on the other hand, even Rita can’t pretend that they knew each other for more than a few months one summer when they were both really young, and —"
"I thought you’d say that,” said Harry. He did not want to let his anger spill out at her, but it was hard to keep his voice steady. “I thought you’d say ‘They were young.’ They were the same age as we are now. And here we are, risking our lives to fight the Dark Arts, and there he was, in a huddle with his new best friend, plotting their rise to power over the Muggles."
"I’m not trying to defend what Dumbledore wrote,” said Hermione. “All that ‘right to rule’ rubbish, it’s ‘Magic Is Might’ all over again. But Harry, his mother had just died, he was stuck alone in the house —"
"Alone? He wasn’t alone! He had his brother and sister for company, his Squib sister he was keeping locked up —"
"I don’t believe it,” said Hermione. She stood up too. “Whatever was wrong with that girl, I don’t think she was a Squib. The Dumbledore we knew would never, ever have allowed —"
"The Dumbledore we thought we knew didn’t want to conquer Muggles by force!"
"He changed, Harry, he changed! It’s as simple as that! Maybe he did believe these things when he was seventeen, but the whole of the rest of his life was devoted to fighting the Dark Arts! Dumbledore was the one who stopped Grindelwald, the one who always voted for Muggle protection and Muggle-born rights, who fought You-Know-Who from the start, and who died trying to bring him down!"
"Harry, I’m sorry, but I think the real reason you’re so angry is that Dumbledore never told you any of this himself."
"Maybe I am!” Harry bellowed, and he flung his arms over his head, hardly knowing whether he was trying to hold in his anger or protect himself from the weight of his own disillusionment. “Look what he asked from me, Hermione! Risk your life, Harry! And again! And again! And don’t expect me to explain everything, just trust me blindly, trust that I know what I’m doing, trust me even though I don’t trust you! Never the whole truth! Never!"
"He loved you,” Hermione whispered. “I know he loved you."
"I don’t know who he loved, Hermione, but it was never me. This isn’t love, the mess he’s left me in. He shared a damn sight more of what he was really thinking with Gellert Grindelwald than he ever shared with me."
"Thanks for the tea. I’ll finish the watch. You get back in the warm."
"We’ll go somewhere more sheltered,” she agreed, shivering as she pulled on a sweatshirt over her pajamas. “I kept thinking I could hear people moving outside. I even thought I saw somebody once or twice."
"I’m sure I imagined it,” said Hermione, looking nervous. “The snow in the dark, it plays tricks on your eyes. . . . But perhaps we ought to Disapparate under the Invisibility Cloak, just in case?"
"Where are we?"
"The Forest of Dean,” she said. “I came camping here once with my mum and dad."
"No,” he said, and his voice was cracked with lack of use. “Come back!"
"Lumos!"
"Accio Sword."
"Help,"
"chivalry"
"Diffindo."
"Are — you — mental?"
"Why the hell,” panted Ron, holding up the Horcrux, which swung backward and forward on its shortened chain in some parody of hypnosis, “didn’t you take this thing off before you dived?"
"It was y-you?"
"Well, yeah,"
"Y-you cast that doe?"
"What? No, of course not! I thought it was you doing it!"
"My Patronus is a stag."
"Oh yeah. I thought it looked different. No antlers."
"How come you’re here?"
"Well, I’ve — you know — I’ve come back. If —” He cleared his throat. “You know. You still want me."
"Oh yeah, I got it out,” he said, rather unnecessarily, holding up the sword for Harry’s inspection. “That’s why you jumped in, right?"
"Yeah,” said Harry. “But I don’t understand. How did you get here? How did you find us?"
"Long story,” said Ron. “I’ve been looking for you for hours, it’s a big forest, isn’t it? And I was just thinking I’d have to kip under a tree and wait for morning when I saw that deer coming and you following."
"You didn’t see anyone else?"
"No,” said Ron. “I —"
"I did think I saw something move over there, but I was running to the pool at the time, because you’d gone in and you hadn’t come up, so I wasn’t going to make a detour to — hey!"
"Anything there?"
"No,"
"So how did the sword get in that pool?"
"Whoever cast the Patronus must have put it there."
"You reckon this is the real one?"
"One way to find out, isn’t there?"
"Come here,"
"No, you should do it."
"Me?” said Ron, looking shocked. “Why?"
"Because you got the sword out of the pool. I think it’s supposed to be you."
"I’m going to open it,” said Harry, “and you stab it. Straightaway, okay? Because whatever’s in there will put up a fight. The bit of Riddle in the diary tried to kill me."
"How are you going to open it?"
"I’m going to ask it to open, using Parseltongue,"
"No!” said Ron. “No, don’t open it! I’m serious!"
"Why not?” asked Harry. “Let’s get rid of the damn thing, it’s been months —"
"I can’t, Harry, I’m serious — you do it —"
"But why?"
"Because that thing’s bad for me!” said Ron, backing away from the locket on the rock. “I can’t handle it! I’m not making excuses, Harry, for what I was like, but it affects me worse than it affected you and Hermione, it made me think stuff — stuff I was thinking anyway, but it made everything worse, I can’t explain it, and then I’d take it off and I’d get my head on straight again, and then I’d have to put the effing thing back on — I can’t do it, Harry!"
"You can do it,” said Harry, “you can! You’ve just got the sword, I know it’s supposed to be you who uses it. Please, just get rid of it, Ron."
"Tell me when,"
"On three,"
"One . . . two . . . three . . . open."
"Stab,"
"I have seen your heart, and it is mine."
"Don’t listen to it!” Harry said harshly. “Stab it!"
"I have seen your dreams, Ronald Weasley, and I have seen your fears. All you desire is possible, but all that you dread is also possible. . . ."
"Stab!"
"Least loved, always, by the mother who craved a daughter . . . Least loved, now, by the girl who prefers your friend . . . Second best, always, eternally overshadowed . . ."
"Ron, stab it now!"
"Ron!"
"Why return? We were better without you, happier without you, glad of your absence. . . . We laughed at your stupidity, your cowardice, your presumption —"
"Presumption!” echoed the Riddle-Hermione, who was more beautiful and yet more terrible than the real Hermione: She swayed, cackling, before Ron, who looked horrified yet transfixed, the sword hanging pointlessly at his side. “Who could look at you, who would ever look at you, beside Harry Potter? What have you ever done, compared with the Chosen One? What are you, compared with the Boy Who Lived?"
"Ron, stab it, STAB IT!"
"Your mother confessed,” sneered Riddle-Harry, while Riddle-Hermione jeered, “that she would have preferred me as a son, would be glad to exchange . . ."
"Who wouldn’t prefer him, what woman would take you, you are nothing, nothing, nothing to him,"
"Do it, Ron!"
"Ron — ?"
"After you left,” he said in a low voice, grateful for the fact that Ron’s face was hidden, “she cried for a week. Probably longer, only she didn’t want me to see. There were loads of nights when we never even spoke to each other. With you gone . . ."
"She’s like my sister,” he went on. “I love her like a sister and I reckon she feels the same way about me. It’s always been like that. I thought you knew."
"I’m sorry,” he said in a thick voice. “I’m sorry I left. I know I was a — a —"
"You’ve sort of made up for it tonight,” said Harry. “Getting the sword. Finishing off the Horcrux. Saving my life."
"That makes me sound a lot cooler than I was,"
"Stuff like that always sounds cooler than it really was,” said Harry. “I’ve been trying to tell you that for years."
"And now,” said Harry as they broke apart, “all we’ve got to do is find the tent again."
"Hermione!"
"What’s wrong? Harry? Are you all right?"
"It’s okay, everything’s fine. More than fine. I’m great. There’s someone here."
"What do you mean? Who — ?"
"Ouch — ow — gerroff! What the — ? Hermione — OW!"
"You — complete — arse — Ronald — Weasley!"
"You — crawl — back — here — after — weeks — and — weeks — oh, where’s my wand?"
"Protego!"
"Hermione!” said Harry. “Calm —"
"I will not calm down!” she screamed. Never before had he seen her lose control like this; she looked quite demented. “Give me back my wand! Give it back to me!"
"Hermione, will you please —"
"Don’t you tell me what to do, Harry Potter!” she screeched. “Don’t you dare! Give it back now! And YOU!"
"I came running after you! I called you! I begged you to come back!"
"I know,” Ron said, “Hermione, I’m sorry, I’m really —"
"Oh, you’re sorry!"
"You come back after weeks — weeks — and you think it’s all going to be all right if you just say sorry?"
"Well, what else can I say?"
"Oh, I don’t know!” yelled Hermione with awful sarcasm. “Rack your brains, Ron, that should only take a couple of seconds —"
"Hermione,” interjected Harry, who considered this a low blow, “he just saved my —"
"I don’t care!” she screamed. “I don’t care what he’s done! Weeks and weeks, we could have been dead for all he knew —"
"I knew you weren’t dead!” bellowed Ron, drowning her voice for the first time, and approaching as close as he could with the Shield Charm between them. “Harry’s all over the Prophet, all over the radio, they’re looking for you everywhere, all these rumors and mental stories, I knew I’d hear straight off if you were dead, you don’t know what it’s been like —"
"What it’s been like for you?"
"I wanted to come back the minute I’d Disapparated, but I walked straight into a gang of Snatchers, Hermione, and I couldn’t go anywhere!"
"A gang of what?"
"Snatchers,” said Ron. “They’re everywhere — gangs trying to earn gold by rounding up Muggle-borns and blood traitors, there’s a reward from the Ministry for everyone captured. I was on my own and I look like I might be school age; they got really excited, thought I was a Muggle-born in hiding. I had to talk fast to get out of being dragged to the Ministry."
"What did you say to them?"
"Told them I was Stan Shunpike. First person I could think of."
"And they believed that?"
"They weren’t the brightest. One of them was definitely part troll, the smell off him. . . ."
"Anyway, they had a row about whether I was Stan or not. It was a bit pathetic to be honest, but there were still five of them and only one of me and they’d taken my wand. Then two of them got into a fight and while the others were distracted I managed to hit the one holding me in the stomach, grabbed his wand, Disarmed the bloke holding mine, and Disapparated. I didn’t do it so well, Splinched myself again” — Ron held up his right hand to show two missing fingernails; Hermione raised her eyebrows coldly — “and I came out miles from where you were. By the time I got back to that bit of riverbank where we’d been . . . you’d gone."
"Gosh, what a gripping story,” Hermione said in the lofty voice she adopted when wishing to wound. “You must have been simply terrified. Meanwhile we went to Godric’s Hollow and, let’s think, what happened there, Harry? Oh yes, You-Know-Who’s snake turned up, it nearly killed both of us, and then You-Know-Who himself arrived and missed us by about a second."
"What?"
"Imagine losing fingernails, Harry! That really puts our sufferings into perspective, doesn’t it?"
"Hermione,” said Harry quietly, “Ron just saved my life."
"One thing I would like to know, though,” she said, fixing her eyes on a spot a foot over Ron’s head. “How exactly did you find us tonight? That’s important. Once we know, we’ll be able to make sure we’re not visited by anyone else we don’t want to see."
"This."
"The Deluminator?"
"It doesn’t just turn the lights on and off,” said Ron. “I don’t know how it works or why it happened then and not any other time, because I’ve been wanting to come back ever since I left. But I was listening to the radio really early on Christmas morning and I heard . . . I heard you."
"You heard me on the radio?"
"No, I heard you coming out of my pocket. Your voice,” he held up the Deluminator again, “came out of this."
"And what exactly did I say?"
"My name. ‘Ron.’ And you said . . . something about a wand. . . ."
"So I took it out,” Ron went on, looking at the Deluminator, “and it didn’t seem different or anything, but I was sure I’d heard you. So I clicked it. And the light went out in my room, but another light appeared right outside the window."
"It was a ball of light, kind of pulsing, and bluish, like that light you get around a Portkey, you know?"
"Yeah,"
"I knew this was it,"
"The little ball of light was hovering there, waiting for me, and when I came out it bobbed along a bit and I followed it behind the shed and then it . . . well, it went inside me."
"Sorry?"
"It sort of floated toward me,” said Ron, illustrating the movement with his free index finger, “right to my chest, and then — it just went straight through. It was here,” he touched a point close to his heart, “I could feel it, it was hot. And once it was inside me I knew what I was supposed to do, I knew it would take me where I needed to go. So I Disapparated and came out on the side of a hill. There was snow everywhere. . . ."
"We were there,” said Harry. “We spent two nights there, and the second night I kept thinking I could hear someone moving around in the dark and calling out!"
"Yeah, well, that would’ve been me,” said Ron. “Your protective spells work, anyway, because I couldn’t see you and I couldn’t hear you. I was sure you were around, though, so in the end I got in my sleeping bag and waited for one of you to appear. I thought you’d have to show yourselves when you packed up the tent."
"No, actually,” said Hermione. “We’ve been Disapparating under the Invisibility Cloak as an extra precaution. And we left really early, because, as Harry says, we’d heard somebody blundering around."
"Well, I stayed on that hill all day,” said Ron. “I kept hoping you’d appear. But when it started to get dark I knew I must have missed you, so I clicked the Deluminator again, the blue light came out and went inside me, and I Disapparated and arrived here in these woods. I still couldn’t see you, so I just had to hope one of you would show yourselves in the end — and Harry did. Well, I saw the doe first, obviously."
"You saw the what?"
"But it must have been a Patronus!” she said. “Couldn’t you see who was casting it? Didn’t you see anyone? And it led you to the sword! I can’t believe this! Then what happened?"
"— and Ron stabbed it with the sword."
"And . . . and it went? Just like that?"
"Well, it — it screamed,” said Harry with half a glance at Ron. “Here."
"Did you just say you got away from the Snatchers with a spare wand?"
"What?” said Ron, who had been watching Hermione examining the locket. “Oh — oh yeah."
"Here. I figured it’s always handy to have a backup."
"You were right,” said Harry, holding out his hand. “Mine’s broken."
"You’re kidding?"
"About the best you could hope for, I think,"
"Yeah,” said Ron. “Could’ve been worse. Remember those birds she set on me?"
"I still haven’t ruled it out,"
"Someone helped us,” he kept saying. “Someone sent that doe. Someone’s on our side. One Horcrux down, mate!"
". . . and how did you find out about the Taboo?"
"The what?"
"You and Hermione have stopped saying You-Know-Who’s name!"
"Oh, yeah. Well, it’s just a bad habit we’ve slipped into,” said Harry. “But I haven’t got a problem calling him V —"
"NO!” roared Ron, causing Harry to jump into the hedge and Hermione (nose buried in a book at the tent entrance) to scowl over at them. “Sorry,” said Ron, wrenching Harry back out of the brambles, “but the name’s been jinxed, Harry, that’s how they track people! Using his name breaks protective enchantments, it causes some kind of magical disturbance — it’s how they found us in Tottenham Court Road!"
"Because we used his name?"
"Exactly! You’ve got to give them credit, it makes sense. It was only people who were serious about standing up to him, like Dumbledore, who ever dared use it. Now they’ve put a Taboo on it, anyone who says it is trackable — quick-and-easy way to find Order members! They nearly got Kingsley —"
"You’re kidding?"
"Yeah, a bunch of Death Eaters cornered him, Bill said, but he fought his way out. He’s on the run now, just like us.” Ron scratched his chin thoughtfully with the end of his wand. “You don’t reckon Kingsley could have sent that doe?"
"His Patronus is a lynx, we saw it at the wedding, remember?"
"Oh yeah . . ."
"Harry . . . you don’t reckon it could’ve been Dumbledore?"
"Dumbledore what?"
"Dumbledore . . . the doe? I mean,” Ron was watching Harry out of the corners of his eyes, “he had the real sword last, didn’t he?"
"Dumbledore’s dead,” he said. “I saw it happen, I saw the body. He’s definitely gone. Anyway, his Patronus was a phoenix, not a doe."
"Patronuses can change, though, can’t they?” said Ron. “Tonks’s changed, didn’t it?"
"Yeah, but if Dumbledore was alive, why wouldn’t he show himself? Why wouldn’t he just hand us the sword?"
"Search me,” said Ron. “Same reason he didn’t give it to you while he was alive? Same reason he left you an old Snitch and Hermione a book of kids’ stories?"
"Which is what?"
"I dunno,” said Ron. “Sometimes I’ve thought, when I’ve been a bit hacked off, he was having a laugh or — or he just wanted to make it more difficult. But I don’t think so, not anymore. He knew what he was doing when he gave me the Deluminator, didn’t he? He — well,” Ron’s ears turned bright red and he became engrossed in a tuft of grass at his feet, which he prodded with his toe, “he must’ve known I’d run out on you."
"No,” Harry corrected him. “He must’ve known you’d always want to come back."
"Speaking of Dumbledore, have you heard what Skeeter wrote about him?"
"Oh yeah,” said Ron at once, “people are talking about it quite a lot. ’Course, if things were different, it’d be huge news, Dumbledore being pals with Grindelwald, but now it’s just something to laugh about for people who didn’t like Dumbledore, and a bit of a slap in the face for everyone who thought he was such a good bloke. I don’t know that it’s such a big deal, though. He was really young when they —"
"Our age,"
"Engorgio."
"Stop that,” said Ron sharply. “I’m sorry I said Dumbledore was young, okay?"
"Sorry — Reducio."
"You just need to practice,” said Hermione, who had approached them noiselessly from behind and had stood watching anxiously as Harry tried to enlarge and reduce the spider. “It’s all a matter of confidence, Harry."
"There’s this one program,” he told Harry in a low voice, “that tells the news like it really is. All the others are on You-Know-Who’s side and are following the Ministry line, but this one . . . you wait till you hear it, it’s great. Only they can’t do it every night, they have to keep changing locations in case they’re raided, and you need a password to tune in. . . . Trouble is, I missed the last one. . . ."
"If it’s annoying you, I’ll stop!"
"We need to talk,"
"What?"
"I want to go and see Xenophilius Lovegood."
"Sorry?"
"Xenophilius Lovegood. Luna’s father. I want to go and talk to him!"
"Er — why?"
"It’s that mark, the mark in Beedle the Bard. Look at this!"
"The signature,” said Hermione. “Look at the signature, Harry!"
"Er — what are you — ?"
"It keeps cropping up, doesn’t it?” she said. “I know Viktor said it was Grindelwald’s mark, but it was definitely on that old grave in Godric’s Hollow, and the dates on the headstone were long before Grindelwald came along! And now this! Well, we can’t ask Dumbledore or Grindelwald what it means — I don’t even know whether Grindelwald’s still alive — but we can ask Mr. Lovegood. He was wearing the symbol at the wedding. I’m sure this is important, Harry!"
"Hermione, we don’t need another Godric’s Hollow. We talked ourselves into going there, and —"
"But it keeps appearing, Harry! Dumbledore left me The Tales of Beedle the Bard, how do you know we’re not supposed to find out about the sign?"
"Here we go again!” Harry felt slightly exasperated. “We keep trying to convince ourselves Dumbledore left us secret signs and clues —"
"The Deluminator turned out to be pretty useful,” piped up Ron. “I think Hermione’s right, I think we ought to go and see Lovegood."
"It won’t be like Godric’s Hollow,” Ron added, “Lovegood’s on your side, Harry, The Quibbler’s been for you all along, it keeps telling everyone they’ve got to help you!"
"I’m sure this is important!"
"But don’t you think if it was, Dumbledore would have told me about it before he died?"
"Maybe . . . maybe it’s something you need to find out for yourself,"
"Yeah,” said Ron sycophantically, “that makes sense."
"No, it doesn’t,” snapped Hermione, “but I still think we ought to talk to Mr. Lovegood. A symbol that links Dumbledore, Grindelwald, and Godric’s Hollow? Harry, I’m sure we ought to know about this!"
"I think we should vote on it,” said Ron. “Those in favor of going to see Lovegood —"
"Outvoted, Harry, sorry,"
"Fine,” said Harry, half amused, half irritated. “Only, once we’ve seen Lovegood, let’s try and look for some more Horcruxes, shall we? Where do the Lovegoods live, anyway? Do either of you know?"
"Yeah, they’re not far from my place,” said Ron. “I dunno exactly where, but Mum and Dad always point toward the hills whenever they mention them. Shouldn’t be hard to find."
"You only agreed to try and get back in her good books."
"All’s fair in love and war,” said Ron brightly, “and this is a bit of both. Cheer up, it’s the Christmas holidays, Luna’ll be home!"
"It’s weird, being this near, but not going to visit,"
"Well, it’s not like you haven’t just seen them. You were there for Christmas,"
"I wasn’t at the Burrow!” said Ron with an incredulous laugh. “Do you think I was going to go back there and tell them all I’d walked out on you? Yeah, Fred and George would’ve been great about it. And Ginny, she’d have been really understanding."
"But where have you been, then?"
"Bill and Fleur’s new place. Shell Cottage. Bill’s always been decent to me. He — he wasn’t impressed when he heard what I’d done, but he didn’t go on about it. He knew I was really sorry. None of the rest of the family know I was there. Bill told Mum he and Fleur weren’t going home for Christmas because they wanted to spend it alone. You know, first holiday after they were married. I don’t think Fleur minded. You know how much she hates Celestina Warbeck."
"Let’s try up here,"
"Do you think it’s theirs, and they’ve gone away for Christmas?"
"Listen, I’ve got a feeling you’d be able to tell who lived there if you looked through the Lovegoods’ window. Let’s try the next lot of hills."
"Aha!” shouted Ron, as the wind whipped their hair and clothes. Ron was pointing upward, toward the top of the hill on which they had appeared, where a most strange-looking house rose vertically against the sky, a great black cylinder with a ghostly moon hanging behind it in the afternoon sky. “That’s got to be Luna’s house, who else would live in a place like that? It looks like a giant rook!"
"It’s nothing like a bird,"
"I was talking about a chess rook,” said Ron. “A castle to you."
"It’s theirs,” said Ron. “Look."
"You’d better take off the Invisibility Cloak, Harry,” said Hermione. “It’s you Mr. Lovegood wants to help, not us."
"What? What is it? Who are you? What do you want?"
"Hello, Mr. Lovegood,” said Harry, holding out his hand. “I’m Harry, Harry Potter."
"Would it be okay if we came in?” asked Harry. “There’s something we’d like to ask you."
"I . . . I’m not sure that’s advisable,” whispered Xenophilius. He swallowed and cast a quick look around the garden. “Rather a shock . . . My word . . . I . . . I’m afraid I don’t really think I ought to —"
"It won’t take long,"
"I — oh, all right then. Come in, quickly. Quickly!"
"You’d better come up,"
"Excuse me,"
"Why have you come here?"
"Mr. Lovegood — what’s that?"
"It is the horn of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack,"
"No it isn’t!"
"Hermione,” muttered Harry, embarrassed, “now’s not the moment —"
"But Harry, it’s an Erumpent horn! It’s a Class B Tradeable Material and it’s an extraordinarily dangerous thing to have in a house!"
"How d’you know it’s an Erumpent horn?"
"There’s a description in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them! Mr. Lovegood, you need to get rid of it straightaway, don’t you know it can explode at the slightest touch?"
"The Crumple-Horned Snorkack,” said Xenophilius very clearly, a mulish look upon his face, “is a shy and highly magical creature, and its horn —"
"Mr. Lovegood, I recognize the grooved markings around the base, that’s an Erumpent horn and it’s incredibly dangerous — I don’t know where you got it —"
"I bought it,” said Xenophilius dogmatically, “two weeks ago, from a delightful young wizard who knew of my interest in the exquisite Snorkack. A Christmas surprise for my Luna. Now,” he said, turning to Harry, “why exactly have you come here, Mr. Potter?"
"We need some help,"
"Ah,” said Xenophilius. “Help. Hmm."
"Yes. The thing is . . . helping Harry Potter . . . rather dangerous . . ."
"Aren’t you the one who keeps telling everyone it’s their first duty to help Harry?” said Ron. “In that magazine of yours?"
"Er — yes, I have expressed that view. However —"
"That’s for everyone else to do, not you personally?"
"Where’s Luna?” asked Hermione. “Let’s see what she thinks."
"Luna is down at the stream, fishing for Freshwater Plimpies. She . . . she will like to see you. I’ll go and call her and then — yes, very well. I shall try to help you."
"Cowardly old wart,” said Ron. “Luna’s got ten times his guts."
"He’s probably worried about what’ll happen to them if the Death Eaters find out I was here,"
"Well, I agree with Ron,” said Hermione. “Awful old hypocrite, telling everyone else to help you and trying to worm out of it himself. And for heaven’s sake keep away from that horn."
"Look at this,"
"Fetching,” said Ron. “Surprised he didn’t wear that to the wedding."
"Ah, you have spotted my pet invention,” he said, shoving the tray into Hermione’s arms and joining Harry at the statue’s side. “Modeled, fittingly enough, upon the head of the beautiful Rowena Ravenclaw. ‘Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure!’"
"These are the Wrackspurt siphons — to remove all sources of distraction from the thinker’s immediate area. Here,” he pointed out the tiny wings, “a billywig propeller, to induce an elevated frame of mind. Finally,” he pointed to the orange radish, “the Dirigible Plum, so as to enhance the ability to accept the extraordinary."
"May I offer you all an infusion of Gurdyroots?” said Xenophilius. “We make it ourselves."
"Now,” he removed a tottering pile of papers from an armchair and sat down, his Wellingtoned legs crossed, “how may I help you, Mr. Potter?"
"Well,” said Harry, glancing at Hermione, who nodded encouragingly, “it’s about that symbol you were wearing around your neck at Bill and Fleur’s wedding, Mr. Lovegood. We wondered what it meant."
"Are you referring to the sign of the Deathly Hallows?"
"The Deathly Hallows?"
"That’s right,” said Xenophilius. “You haven’t heard of them? I’m not surprised. Very, very few wizards believe. Witness that knuckleheaded young man at your brother’s wedding,” he nodded at Ron, “who attacked me for sporting the symbol of a well-known Dark wizard! Such ignorance. There is nothing Dark about the Hallows — at least, not in that crude sense. One simply uses the symbol to reveal oneself to other believers, in the hope that they might help one with the Quest."
"I’m sorry,” said Harry. “I still don’t really understand."
"Well, you see, believers seek the Deathly Hallows,"
"But what are the Deathly Hallows?"
"I assume that you are all familiar with ‘The Tale of the Three Brothers’?"
"No,” but Ron and Hermione both said, “Yes."
"Well, well, Mr. Potter, the whole thing starts with ‘The Tale of the Three Brothers’ . . . I have a copy somewhere. . . ."
"I’ve got a copy, Mr. Lovegood, I’ve got it right here."
"The original?” inquired Xenophilius sharply, and when she nodded, he said, “Well then, why don’t you read it aloud? Much the best way to make sure we all understand."
"Er . . . all right,"
"‘There were once three brothers who were traveling along a lonely, winding road at twilight —’"
"Midnight, our mum always told us,"
"Sorry, I just think it’s a bit spookier if it’s midnight!"
"Yeah, because we really need a bit more fear in our lives,” said Harry before he could stop himself. Xenophilius did not seem to be paying much attention, but was staring out of the window at the sky. “Go on, Hermione."
"‘And Death spoke to them —’"
"Sorry,” interjected Harry, “but Death spoke to them?"
"It’s a fairy tale, Harry!"
"Right, sorry. Go on."
"‘And then Death asked the third and youngest brother what he would like. The youngest brother was the humblest and also the wisest of the brothers, and he did not trust Death. So he asked for something that would enable him to go forth from that place without being followed by Death. And Death, most unwillingly, handed over his own Cloak of Invisibility.’"
"Death’s got an Invisibility Cloak?"
"So he can sneak up on people,” said Ron. “Sometimes he gets bored of running at them, flapping his arms and shrieking . . . sorry, Hermione."
"‘But though Death searched for the third brother for many years, he was never able to find him. It was only when he had attained a great age that the youngest brother finally took off the Cloak of Invisibility and gave it to his son. And then he greeted Death as an old friend, and went with him gladly, and, equals, they departed this life.’"
"Well, there you are."
"Sorry?"
"Those are the Deathly Hallows,"
"The Elder Wand,” he said, and he drew a straight vertical line upon the parchment. “The Resurrection Stone,” he said, and he added a circle on top of the line. “The Cloak of Invisibility,” he finished, enclosing both line and circle in a triangle, to make the symbol that so intrigued Hermione. “Together,” he said, “the Deathly Hallows."
"But there’s no mention of the words ‘Deathly Hallows’ in the story,"
"Well, of course not,” said Xenophilius, maddeningly smug. “That is a children’s tale, told to amuse rather than to instruct. Those of us who understand these matters, however, recognize that the ancient story refers to three objects, or Hallows, which, if united, will make the possessor master of Death."
"Luna ought to have enough Plimpies soon,"
"When you say ‘master of Death’ —"
"Master,” said Xenophilius, waving an airy hand. “Conqueror. Vanquisher. Whichever term you prefer."
"But then . . . do you mean . . .” said Hermione slowly, and Harry could tell that she was trying to keep any trace of skepticism out of her voice, “that you believe these objects — these Hallows — actually exist?"
"Well, of course."
"But,” said Hermione, and Harry could hear her restraint starting to crack, “Mr. Lovegood, how can you possibly believe — ?"
"Luna has told me all about you, young lady,” said Xenophilius. “You are, I gather, not unintelligent, but painfully limited. Narrow. Close-minded."
"Perhaps you ought to try on the hat, Hermione,"
"Mr. Lovegood,” Hermione began again. “We all know that there are such things as Invisibility Cloaks. They are rare, but they exist. But —"
"Ah, but the Third Hallow is a true Cloak of Invisibility, Miss Granger! I mean to say, it is not a traveling cloak imbued with a Disillusionment Charm, or carrying a Bedazzling Hex, or else woven from Demiguise hair, which will hide one initially but fade with the years until it turns opaque. We are talking about a cloak that really and truly renders the wearer completely invisible, and endures eternally, giving constant and impenetrable concealment, no matter what spells are cast at it. How many cloaks have you ever seen like that, Miss Granger?"
"Exactly,” said Xenophilius, as if he had defeated them all in reasoned argument. “None of you have ever seen such a thing. The possessor would be immeasurably rich, would he not?"
"All right,” said Hermione, disconcerted. “Say the Cloak existed . . . what about the stone, Mr. Lovegood? The thing you call the Resurrection Stone?"
"What of it?"
"Well, how can that be real?"
"Prove that it is not,"
"But that’s — I’m sorry, but that’s completely ridiculous! How can I possibly prove it doesn’t exist? Do you expect me to get hold of — of all the pebbles in the world and test them? I mean, you could claim that anything’s real if the only basis for believing in it is that nobody’s proved it doesn’t exist!"
"Yes, you could,” said Xenophilius. “I am glad to see that you are opening your mind a little."
"So the Elder Wand,” said Harry quickly, before Hermione could retort, “you think that exists too?"
"Oh, well, in that case there is endless evidence,” said Xenophilius. “The Elder Wand is the Hallow that is most easily traced, because of the way in which it passes from hand to hand."
"Which is what?"
"Which is that the possessor of the wand must capture it from its previous owner, if he is to be truly master of it,” said Xenophilius. “Surely you have heard of the way the wand came to Egbert the Egregious, after his slaughter of Emeric the Evil? Of how Godelot died in his own cellar after his son, Hereward, took the wand from him? Of the dreadful Loxias, who took the wand from Barnabas Deverill, whom he had killed? The bloody trail of the Elder Wand is splattered across the pages of Wizarding history."
"So where do you think the Elder Wand is now?"
"Alas, who knows?” said Xenophilius, as he gazed out of the window. “Who knows where the Elder Wand lies hidden? The trail goes cold with Arcus and Livius. Who can say which of them really defeated Loxias, and which took the wand? And who can say who may have defeated them? History, alas, does not tell us."
"Mr. Lovegood, does the Peverell family have anything to do with the Deathly Hallows?"
"But you have been misleading me, young woman!” said Xenophilius, now sitting up much straighter in his chair and goggling at Hermione. “I thought you were new to the Hallows Quest! Many of us Questers believe that the Peverells have everything — everything! — to do with the Hallows!"
"Who are the Peverells?"
"That was the name on the grave with the mark on it, in Godric’s Hollow,” said Hermione, still watching Xenophilius. “Ignotus Peverell."
"Exactly!” said Xenophilius, his forefinger raised pedantically. “The sign of the Deathly Hallows on Ignotus’s grave is conclusive proof!"
"Of what?"
"Why, that the three brothers in the story were actually the three Peverell brothers, Antioch, Cadmus, and Ignotus! That they were the original owners of the Hallows!"
"You will stay for dinner?” he called, as he vanished downstairs again. “Everybody always requests our recipe for Freshwater Plimpy soup."
"Probably to show the Poisoning Department at St. Mungo’s,"
"What do you think?"
"Oh, Harry,” she said wearily, “it’s a pile of utter rubbish. This can’t be what the sign really means. This must just be his weird take on it. What a waste of time."
"I s’pose this is the man who brought us Crumple-Horned Snorkacks,"
"You don’t believe it either?"
"Nah, that story’s just one of those things you tell kids to teach them lessons, isn’t it? ‘Don’t go looking for trouble, don’t pick fights, don’t go messing around with stuff that’s best left alone! Just keep your head down, mind your own business, and you’ll be okay.’ Come to think of it,” Ron added, “maybe that story’s why elder wands are supposed to be unlucky."
"What are you talking about?"
"One of those superstitions, isn’t it? ‘May-born witches will marry Muggles.’ ‘Jinx by twilight, undone by midnight.’ ‘Wand of elder, never prosper.’ You must’ve heard them. My mum’s full of them."
"Harry and I were raised by Muggles,” Hermione reminded him. “We were taught different superstitions.” She sighed deeply as a rather pungent smell drifted up from the kitchen. The one good thing about her exasperation with Xenophilius was that it seemed to have made her forget that she was annoyed at Ron. “I think you’re right,” she told him. “It’s just a morality tale, it’s obvious which gift is best, which one you’d choose —"
"the Cloak,” Ron said, “the wand,” and Harry said, “the stone."
"You’re supposed to say the Cloak,” Ron told Hermione, “but you wouldn’t need to be invisible if you had the wand. An unbeatable wand, Hermione, come on!"
"We’ve already got an Invisibility Cloak,"
"And it’s helped us rather a lot, in case you hadn’t noticed!” said Hermione. “Whereas the wand would be bound to attract trouble —"
"Only if you shouted about it,” argued Ron. “Only if you were prat enough to go dancing around, waving it over your head, and singing, ‘I’ve got an unbeatable wand, come and have a go if you think you’re hard enough.’ As long as you kept your trap shut —"
"Yes, but could you keep your trap shut?” said Hermione, looking skeptical. “You know, the only true thing he said to us was that there have been stories about extra-powerful wands for hundreds of years."
"There have?"
"The Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny, they crop up under different names through the centuries, usually in the possession of some Dark wizard who’s boasting about them. Professor Binns mentioned some of them, but — oh, it’s all nonsense. Wands are only as powerful as the wizards who use them. Some wizards just like to boast that theirs are bigger and better than other people’s."
"But how do you know,” said Harry, “that those wands — the Deathstick and the Wand of Destiny — aren’t the same wand, surfacing over the centuries under different names?"
"What, and they’re all really the Elder Wand, made by Death?"
"So why would you take the stone?"
"Well, if you could bring people back, we could have Sirius . . . Mad-Eye . . . Dumbledore . . . my parents. . . ."
"But according to Beedle the Bard, they wouldn’t want to come back, would they?” said Harry, thinking about the tale they had just heard. “I don’t suppose there have been loads of other stories about a stone that can raise the dead, have there?"
"No,” she replied sadly. “I don’t think anyone except Mr. Lovegood could kid themselves that’s possible. Beedle probably took the idea from the Sorcerer’s Stone; you know, instead of a stone to make you immortal, a stone to reverse death."
"What about the Cloak, though?” said Ron slowly. “Don’t you realize, he’s right? I’ve got so used to Harry’s Cloak and how good it is, I never stopped to think. I’ve never heard of one like Harry’s. It’s infallible. We’ve never been spotted under it —"
"Of course not — we’re invisible when we’re under it, Ron!"
"But all the stuff he said about other cloaks, and they’re not exactly ten a Knut, you know, is true! It’s never occurred to me before, but I’ve heard stuff about charms wearing off cloaks when they get old, or them being ripped apart by spells so they’ve got holes in. Harry’s was owned by his dad, so it’s not exactly new, is it, but it’s just . . . perfect!"
"Yes, all right, but Ron, the stone . . ."
"Harry, what are you doing? I don’t think you should look around when he’s not here!"
"What’s wrong?"
"Mr. Lovegood,” said Harry. “Where’s Luna?"
"Excuse me?"
"Where’s Luna?"
"I — I’ve already told you. She is down at Bottom Bridge, fishing for Plimpies."
"So why have you only laid that tray for four?"
"I don’t think Luna’s been here for weeks,” said Harry. “Her clothes are gone, her bed hasn’t been slept in. Where is she? And why do you keep looking out of the window?"
"Harry, look at this."
"The Quibbler’s going for a new angle, then?” Harry asked coldly, his mind working very fast. “Is that what you were doing when you went into the garden, Mr. Lovegood? Sending an owl to the Ministry?"
"They took my Luna,” he whispered. “Because of what I’ve been writing. They took my Luna and I don’t know where she is, what they’ve done to her. But they might give her back to me if I — if I —"
"Hand over Harry?"
"No deal,” said Ron flatly. “Get out of the way, we’re leaving."
"They will be here at any moment. I must save Luna. I cannot lose Luna. You must not leave."
"Don’t make us hurt you,” Harry said. “Get out of the way, Mr. Lovegood."
"HARRY!"
"Didn’t I tell you there was no need to hurry, Travers?” said a rough voice. “Didn’t I tell you this nutter was just raving as usual?"
"No . . . no . . . upstairs . . . Potter!"
"I told you last week, Lovegood, we weren’t coming back for anything less than some solid information! Remember last week? When you wanted to swap your daughter for that stupid bleeding headdress? And the week before” — another bang, another squeal — “when you thought we’d give her back if you offered us proof there are Crumple” — bang — “Headed” — bang — “Snorkacks?"
"No — no — I beg you!” sobbed Xenophilius. “It really is Potter! Really!"
"And now it turns out you only called us here to try and blow us up!"
"The place looks like it’s about to fall in, Selwyn,” said a cool second voice, echoing up the mangled staircase. “The stairs are completely blocked. Could try clearing it? Might bring the place down."
"You lying piece of filth,” shouted the wizard named Selwyn. “You’ve never seen Potter in your life, have you? Thought you’d lure us here to kill us, did you? And you think you’ll get your girl back like this?"
"I swear . . . I swear . . . Potter’s upstairs!"
"Homenum revelio,"
"There’s someone up there all right, Selwyn,"
"It’s Potter, I tell you, it’s Potter!” sobbed Xenophilius. “Please . . . please . . . give me Luna, just let me have Luna. . . ."
"You can have your little girl, Lovegood,” said Selwyn, “if you get up those stairs and bring me down Harry Potter. But if this is a plot, if it’s a trick, if you’ve got an accomplice waiting up there to ambush us, we’ll see if we can spare a bit of your daughter for you to bury."
"Come on,” Harry whispered, “we’ve got to get out of here."
"All right,” breathed Hermione, as the broken printing press blocking the top of the stairs began to tremble; Xenophilius was feet away from them. She was still white with dust. “Do you trust me, Harry?"
"Okay then,” Hermione whispered, “give me the Invisibility Cloak. Ron, you’re going to put it on."
"Me? But Harry —"
"Please, Ron! Harry, hold on tight to my hand, Ron, grab my shoulder."
"Hold tight,” she whispered. “Hold tight . . . any second . . ."
"Obliviate!” cried Hermione, pointing her wand first into his face, then at the floor beneath them. “Deprimo!"
"Protego Totalum . . . Salvio Hexia . . ."
"That treacherous old bleeder!” Ron panted, emerging from beneath the Invisibility Cloak and throwing it to Harry. “Hermione, you’re a genius, a total genius, I can’t believe we got out of that!"
"Cave Inimicum . . . Didn’t I say it was an Erumpent horn, didn’t I tell him? And now his house has been blown apart!"
"Serves him right,” said Ron, examining his torn jeans and the cuts to his legs. “What d’you reckon they’ll do to him?"
"Oh, I hope they don’t kill him!” groaned Hermione. “That’s why I wanted the Death Eaters to get a glimpse of Harry before we left, so they knew Xenophilius hadn’t been lying!"
"Why hide me, though?"
"You’re supposed to be in bed with spattergroit, Ron! They’ve kidnapped Luna because her father supported Harry! What would happen to your family if they knew you’re with him?"
"But what about your mum and dad?"
"They’re in Australia,” said Hermione. “They should be all right. They don’t know anything."
"You’re a genius,"
"Yeah, you are, Hermione,” agreed Harry fervently. “I don’t know what we’d do without you."
"What about Luna?"
"Well, if they’re telling the truth and she’s still alive —"
"Don’t say that, don’t say it!” squealed Hermione. “She must be alive, she must!"
"Then she’ll be in Azkaban, I expect,” said Ron. “Whether she survives the place, though . . . Loads don’t. . . ."
"She will,” said Harry. He could not bear to contemplate the alternative. “She’s tough, Luna, much tougher than you’d think. She’s probably teaching all the inmates about Wrackspurts and Nargles."
"I hope you’re right,” said Hermione. She passed a hand over her eyes. “I’d feel so sorry for Xenophilius if —"
"— if he hadn’t just tried to sell us to the Death Eaters, yeah,"
"Oh, why did we go there?” groaned Hermione after a few minutes’ silence. “Harry, you were right, it was Godric’s Hollow all over again, a complete waste of time! The Deathly Hallows . . . such rubbish . . . although actually,” a sudden thought seemed to have struck her, “he might have made it all up, mightn’t he? He probably doesn’t believe in the Deathly Hallows at all, he just wanted to keep us talking until the Death Eaters arrived!"
"I don’t think so,” said Ron. “It’s a damn sight harder making stuff up when you’re under stress than you’d think. I found that out when the Snatchers caught me. It was much easier pretending to be Stan, because I knew a bit about him, than inventing a whole new person. Old Lovegood was under loads of pressure, trying to make sure we stayed put. I reckon he told us the truth, or what he thinks is the truth, just to keep us talking."
"Well, I don’t suppose it matters,” sighed Hermione. “Even if he was being honest, I never heard such a lot of nonsense in all my life."
"Hang on, though,” said Ron. “The Chamber of Secrets was supposed to be a myth, wasn’t it?"
"But the Deathly Hallows can’t exist, Ron!"
"You keep saying that, but one of them can,” said Ron. “Harry’s Invisibility Cloak —"
"‘The Tale of the Three Brothers’ is a story,” said Hermione firmly. “A story about how humans are frightened of death. If surviving was as simple as hiding under the Invisibility Cloak, we’d have everything we need already!"
"I don’t know. We could do with an unbeatable wand,"
"There’s no such thing, Harry!"
"You said there have been loads of wands — the Deathstick and whatever they were called —"
"All right, even if you want to kid yourself the Elder Wand’s real, what about the Resurrection Stone?” Her fingers sketched quotation marks around the name, and her tone dripped sarcasm. “No magic can raise the dead, and that’s that!"
"When my wand connected with You-Know-Who’s, it made my mum and dad appear . . . and Cedric . . ."
"But they weren’t really back from the dead, were they?” said Hermione. “Those kinds of — of pale imitations aren’t the same as truly bringing someone back to life."
"But she, the girl in the tale, didn’t really come back, did she? The story says that once people are dead, they belong with the dead. But the second brother still got to see her and talk to her, didn’t he? He even lived with her for a while. . . ."
"So that Peverell bloke who’s buried in Godric’s Hollow,” he said hastily, trying to sound robustly sane, “you don’t know anything about him, then?"
"No,” she replied, looking relieved at the change of subject. “I looked him up after I saw the mark on his grave; if he’d been anyone famous or done anything important, I’m sure he’d be in one of our books. The only place I’ve managed to find the name ‘Peverell’ is Nature’s Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. I borrowed it from Kreacher,” she explained as Ron raised his eyebrows. “It lists the pure-blood families that are now extinct in the male line. Apparently the Peverells were one of the earliest families to vanish."
"‘Extinct in the male line’?"
"It means the name’s died out,” said Hermione, “centuries ago, in the case of the Peverells. They could still have descendants, though, they’d just be called something different."
"Peverell”: a filthy old man brandishing an ugly ring in the face of a Ministry official, and he cried aloud, “Marvolo Gaunt!"
"Sorry?"
"Marvolo Gaunt! You-Know-Who’s grandfather! In the Pensieve! With Dumbledore! Marvolo Gaunt said he was descended from the Peverells!"
"The ring, the ring that became the Horcrux, Marvolo Gaunt said it had the Peverell coat of arms on it! I saw him waving it in the bloke from the Ministry’s face, he nearly shoved it up his nose!"
"The Peverell coat of arms?” said Hermione sharply. “Could you see what it looked like?"
"Not really,” said Harry, trying to remember. “There was nothing fancy on there, as far as I could see; maybe a few scratches. I only ever saw it really close up after it had been cracked open."
"Blimey . . . You reckon it was this sign again? The sign of the Hallows?"
"Why not?”said Harry excitedly. “Marvolo Gaunt was an ignorant old git who lived like a pig, all he cared about was his ancestry. If that ring had been passed down through the centuries, he might not have known what it really was. There were no books in that house, and trust me, he wasn’t the type to read fairy tales to his kids. He’d have loved to think the scratches on the stone were a coat of arms, because as far as he was concerned, having pure blood made you practically royal."
"Yes . . . and that’s all very interesting,” said Hermione cautiously, “but Harry, if you’re thinking what I think you’re think —"
"Well, why not? Why not?” said Harry, abandoning caution. “It was a stone, wasn’t it?” He looked at Ron for support. “What if it was the Resurrection Stone?"
"Blimey — but would it still work if Dumbledore broke — ?"
"Work? Work? Ron, it never worked! There’s no such thing as a Resurrection Stone!"
"Harry, you’re trying to fit everything into the Hallows story —"
"Fit everything in?” he repeated. “Hermione, it fits of its own accord! I know the sign of the Deathly Hallows was on that stone! Gaunt said he was descended from the Peverells!"
"A minute ago you told us you never saw the mark on the stone properly!"
"Where d’you reckon the ring is now?” Ron asked Harry. “What did Dumbledore do with it after he broke it open?"
"Harry?"
"Dumbledore had my Cloak the night my parents died!"
"My mum told Sirius that Dumbledore borrowed the Cloak! This is why! He wanted to examine it, because he thought it was the third Hallow! Ignotus Peverell is buried in Godric’s Hollow. . . .” Harry was walking blindly around the tent, feeling as though great new vistas of truth were opening all around him. “He’s my ancestor! I’m descended from the third brother! It all makes sense!"
"Harry,"
"Read it,” he told her, pushing his mother’s letter into her hand. “Read it! Dumbledore had the Cloak, Hermione! Why else would he want it? He didn’t need a Cloak, he could perform a Disillusionment Charm so powerful that he made himself completely invisible without one!"
"IT’S IN HERE! He left me the ring — it’s in the Snitch!"
"You — you reckon?"
"That’s what he’s after."
"You-Know-Who’s after the Elder Wand."
"This is it,” Harry said, trying to bring them inside the glow of his own astonished certainty. “This explains everything. The Deathly Hallows are real, and I’ve got one — maybe two —"
"— and You-Know-Who’s chasing the third, but he doesn’t realize . . . he just thinks it’s a powerful wand —"
"Harry,” said Hermione, moving across to him and handing him back Lily’s letter, “I’m sorry, but I think you’ve got this wrong, all wrong."
"But don’t you see? It all fits —"
"No, it doesn’t,” she said. “It doesn’t, Harry, you’re just getting carried away. Please,” she said as he started to speak, “please just answer me this: If the Deathly Hallows really existed, and Dumbledore knew about them, knew that the person who possessed all three of them would be master of Death — Harry, why wouldn’t he have told you? Why?"
"But you said it, Hermione! You’ve got to find out about them for yourself! It’s a Quest!"
"But I only said that to try and persuade you to come to the Lovegoods’!” cried Hermione in exasperation. “I didn’t really believe it!"
"Dumbledore usually let me find out stuff for myself. He let me try my strength, take risks. This feels like the kind of thing he’d do."
"Harry, this isn’t a game, this isn’t practice! This is the real thing, and Dumbledore left you very clear instructions: Find and destroy the Horcruxes! That symbol doesn’t mean anything, forget the Deathly Hallows, we can’t afford to get sidetracked —"
"You don’t believe in this, do you?"
"I dunno . . . I mean . . . bits of it sort of fit together,” said Ron awkwardly. “But when you look at the whole thing . . .” He took a deep breath. “I think we’re supposed to get rid of Horcruxes, Harry. That’s what Dumbledore told us to do. Maybe . . . maybe we should forget about this Hallows business."
"Thank you, Ron,” said Hermione. “I’ll take first watch."
"Obsession?” said Hermione in a low fierce voice, when Harry was careless enough to use the word one evening, after Hermione had told him off for his lack of interest in locating more Horcruxes. “We’re not the ones with an obsession, Harry! We’re the ones trying to do what Dumbledore wanted us to do!"
"‘The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death,’"
"I thought it was You-Know-Who we were supposed to be fighting?"
"Three Horcruxes left,” he kept saying. “We need a plan of action, come on! Where haven’t we looked? Let’s go through it again. The orphanage . . ."
"You never know,” was Ron’s constant refrain. “Upper Flagley is a Wizarding village, he might’ve wanted to live there. Let’s go and have a poke around."
"Some of them are supposed to be as bad as Death Eaters,” said Ron. “The lot that got me were a bit pathetic, but Bill reckons some of them are really dangerous. They said on Potterwatch —"
"On what?"
"Potterwatch, didn’t I tell you that’s what it was called? The program I keep trying to get on the radio, the only one that tells the truth about what’s going on! Nearly all the programs are following You-Know-Who’s line, all except Potterwatch. I really want you to hear it, but it’s tricky tuning in. . . ."
"A Cauldron Full of Hot Strong Love."
"They’re normally something to do with the Order,” he told them. “Bill had a real knack for guessing them. I’m bound to get one in the end. . . ."
"I’ve got it, I’ve got it! Password was ‘Albus’! Get in here, Harry!"
". . . apologize for our temporary absence from the airwaves, which was due to a number of house calls in our area by those charming Death Eaters."
"But that’s Lee Jordan!"
"I know!” beamed Ron. “Cool, eh?"
". . . now found ourselves another secure location,” Lee was saying, “and I’m pleased to tell you that two of our regular contributors have joined me here this evening. Evening, boys!"
"Hi."
"Evening, River."
"‘River,’ that’s Lee,” Ron explained. “They’ve all got code names, but you can usually tell —"
"Shh!"
"But before we hear from Royal and Romulus,” Lee went on, “let’s take a moment to report those deaths that the Wizarding Wireless Network News and Daily Prophet don’t think important enough to mention. It is with great regret that we inform our listeners of the murders of Ted Tonks and Dirk Cresswell."
"Listeners, I’d like to invite you now to join us in a minute’s silence in memory of Ted Tonks, Dirk Cresswell, Bathilda Bagshot, Gornuk, and the unnamed, but no less regretted, Muggles murdered by the Death Eaters."
"Thank you,” said Lee’s voice. “And now we turn to regular contributor Royal, for an update on how the new Wizarding order is affecting the Muggle world."
"Thanks, River,"
"Kingsley!"
"We know!"
"Muggles remain ignorant of the source of their suffering as they continue to sustain heavy casualties,” said Kingsley. “However, we continue to hear truly inspirational stories of wizards and witches risking their own safety to protect Muggle friends and neighbors, often without the Muggles’ knowledge. I’d like to appeal to all our listeners to emulate their example, perhaps by casting a protective charm over any Muggle dwellings in your street. Many lives could be saved if such simple measures are taken."
"And what would you say, Royal, to those listeners who reply that in these dangerous times, it should be ‘Wizards first’?"
"I’d say that it’s one short step from ‘Wizards first’ to ‘Purebloods first,’ and then to ‘Death Eaters,’” replied Kingsley. “We’re all human, aren’t we? Every human life is worth the same, and worth saving."
"Excellently put, Royal, and you’ve got my vote for Minister of Magic if ever we get out of this mess,” said Lee. “And now, over to Romulus for our popular feature ‘Pals of Potter.’"
"Thanks, River,"
"We know it’s Lupin!"
"Romulus, do you maintain, as you have every time you’ve appeared on our program, that Harry Potter is still alive?"
"I do,” said Lupin firmly. “There is no doubt at all in my mind that his death would be proclaimed as widely as possible by the Death Eaters if it had happened, because it would strike a deadly blow at the morale of those resisting the new regime. ‘The Boy Who Lived’ remains a symbol of everything for which we are fighting: the triumph of good, the power of innocence, the need to keep resisting."
"And what would you say to Harry if you knew he was listening, Romulus?"
"I’d tell him we’re all with him in spirit,” said Lupin, then hesitated slightly. “And I’d tell him to follow his instincts, which are good and nearly always right."
"Nearly always right,"
"Oh, didn’t I tell you?” said Ron in surprise. “Bill told me Lupin’s living with Tonks again! And apparently she’s getting pretty big too. . . ."
". . . and our usual update on those friends of Harry Potter’s who are suffering for their allegiance?"
"Well, as regular listeners will know, several of the more outspoken supporters of Harry Potter have now been imprisoned, including Xenophilius Lovegood, erstwhile editor of The Quibbler,"
"At least he’s still alive!"
"We have also heard within the last few hours that Rubeus Hagrid” — all three of them gasped, and so nearly missed the rest of the sentence — “well-known gamekeeper at Hogwarts School, has narrowly escaped arrest within the grounds of Hogwarts, where he is rumored to have hosted a ‘Support Harry Potter’ party in his house. However, Hagrid was not taken into custody, and is, we believe, on the run."
"I suppose it helps, when escaping from Death Eaters, if you’ve got a sixteen-foot-high half brother?"
"It would tend to give you an edge,” agreed Lupin gravely. “May I just add that while we here at Potterwatch applaud Hagrid’s spirit, we would urge even the most devoted of Harry’s supporters against following Hagrid’s lead. ‘Support Harry Potter’ parties are unwise in the present climate."
"Indeed they are, Romulus,” said Lee, “so we suggest that you continue to show your devotion to the man with the lightning scar by listening to Potterwatch! And now let’s move to news concerning the wizard who is proving just as elusive as Harry Potter. We like to refer to him as the Chief Death Eater, and here to give his views on some of the more insane rumors circulating about him, I’d like to introduce a new correspondent: Rodent."
"‘Rodent’?"
"Fred!"
"No — is it George?"
"It’s Fred, I think,"
"I’m not being ‘Rodent,’ no way, I told you I wanted to be ‘Rapier’!"
"Oh, all right then. ‘Rapier,’ could you please give us your take on the various stories we’ve been hearing about the Chief Death Eater?"
"Yes, River, I can,” said Fred. “As our listeners will know, unless they’ve taken refuge at the bottom of a garden pond or somewhere similar, You-Know-Who’s strategy of remaining in the shadows is creating a nice little climate of panic. Mind you, if all the alleged sightings of him are genuine, we must have a good nineteen You-Know-Whos running around the place."
"Which suits him, of course,” said Kingsley. “The air of mystery is creating more terror than actually showing himself."
"Agreed,” said Fred. “So, people, let’s try and calm down a bit. Things are bad enough without inventing stuff as well. For instance, this new idea that You-Know-Who can kill with a single glance from his eyes. That’s a basilisk, listeners. One simple test: Check whether the thing that’s glaring at you has got legs. If it has, it’s safe to look into its eyes, although if it really is You-Know-Who, that’s still likely to be the last thing you ever do."
"And the rumors that he keeps being sighted abroad?"
"Well, who wouldn’t want a nice little holiday after all the hard work he’s been putting in?” asked Fred. “Point is, people, don’t get lulled into a false sense of security, thinking he’s out of the country. Maybe he is, maybe he isn’t, but the fact remains he can move faster than Severus Snape confronted with shampoo when he wants to, so don’t count on him being a long way away if you’re planning on taking any risks. I never thought I’d hear myself say it, but safety first!"
"Thank you very much for those wise words, Rapier,” said Lee. “Listeners, that brings us to the end of another Potterwatch. We don’t know when it will be possible to broadcast again, but you can be sure we shall be back. Keep twiddling those dials: The next password will be ‘Mad-Eye.’ Keep each other safe: Keep faith. Good night."
"Good, eh?"
"Brilliant,"
"It’s so brave of them,” sighed Hermione admiringly. “If they were found . . ."
"Well, they keep on the move, don’t they?” said Ron. “Like us."
"But did you hear what Fred said?” asked Harry excitedly; now the broadcast was over, his thoughts turned again toward his all-consuming obsession. “He’s abroad! He’s still looking for the Wand, I knew it!"
"Harry —"
"Come on, Hermione, why are you so determined not to admit it? Vol —"
"HARRY, NO!"
"— demort’s after the Elder Wand!"
"The name’s Taboo!” Ron bellowed, leaping to his feet as a loud crack sounded outside the tent. “I told you, Harry, I told you, we can’t say it anymore — we’ve got to put the protection back around us — quickly — it’s how they find —"
"Come out of there with your hands up!” came a rasping voice through the darkness. “We know you’re in there! You’ve got half a dozen wands pointing at you and we don’t care who we curse!"
"Get up, vermin."
"Get — off — her!” Ron shouted. There was the unmistakable sound of knuckles hitting flesh: Ron grunted in pain and Hermione screamed, “No! Leave him alone, leave him alone!"
"Your boyfriend’s going to have worse than that done to him if he’s on my list,” said the horribly familiar, rasping voice. “Delicious girl . . . What a treat . . . I do enjoy the softness of the skin. . . ."
"Search the tent!"
"Now, let’s see who we’ve got,"
"I’ll be needing butterbeer to wash this one down. What happened to you, ugly?"
"I said,” repeated Greyback, and Harry received a blow to the diaphragm that made him double over in pain, “what happened to you?"
"Stung,” Harry muttered. “Been stung."
"Yeah, looks like it,"
"What’s your name?"
"Dudley,"
"And your first name?"
"I — Vernon. Vernon Dudley."
"Check the list, Scabior,” said Greyback, and Harry heard him move sideways to look down at Ron, instead. “And what about you, ginger?"
"Stan Shunpike,"
"Like ’ell you are,” said the man called Scabior. “We know Stan Shunpike, ’e’s put a bit of work our way."
"I’b Bardy,” said Ron, and Harry could tell that his mouth was full of blood. “Bardy Weadley."
"A Weasley?” rasped Greyback. “So you’re related to blood traitors even if you’re not a Mudblood. And lastly, your pretty little friend . . ."
"Easy, Greyback,"
"Oh, I’m not going to bite just yet. We’ll see if she’s a bit quicker at remembering her name than Barny. Who are you, girly?"
"Penelope Clearwater,"
"What’s your blood status?"
"Half-blood,"
"Easy enough to check,” said Scabior. “But the ’ole lot of ’em look like they could still be ’ogwarts age —"
"We’b lebt,"
"Left, ’ave you, ginger?” said Scabior. “And you decided to go camping? And you thought, just for a laugh, you’d use the Dark Lord’s name?"
"Nod a laugh,” said Ron. “Aggiden."
"Accident?"
"You know who used to like using the Dark Lord’s name, Weasley?” growled Greyback. “The Order of the Phoenix. Mean anything to you?"
"Doh."
"Well, they don’t show the Dark Lord proper respect, so the name’s been Tabooed. A few Order members have been tracked that way. We’ll see. Bind them up with the other two prisoners!"
"Anyone still got a wand?"
"No,"
"This is all my fault. I said the name, I’m sorry —"
"Harry?"
"Dean?"
"It is you! If they find out who they’ve got — ! They’re Snatchers, they’re only looking for truants to sell for gold —"
"Not a bad little haul for one night,” Greyback was saying, as a pair of hobnailed boots marched close by Harry and they heard more crashes from inside the tent. “A Mudblood, a runaway goblin, and three truants. You checked their names on the list yet, Scabior?"
"Yeah. There’s no Vernon Dudley on ’ere, Greyback."
"Interesting,” said Greyback. “That’s interesting."
"So you aren’t wanted, then, Vernon? Or are you on that list under a different name? What House were you in at Hogwarts?"
"Slytherin,"
"Funny ’ow they all thinks we wants to ’ear that,” jeered Scabior out of the shadows. “But none of ’em can tell us where the common room is."
"It’s in the dungeons,” said Harry clearly. “You enter through the wall. It’s full of skulls and stuff and it’s under the lake, so the light’s all green."
"Well, well, looks like we really ’ave caught a little Slytherin,” said Scabior. “Good for you, Vernon, ’cause there ain’t a lot of Mudblood Slytherins. Who’s your father?"
"He works at the Ministry,” Harry lied. He knew that his whole story would collapse with the smallest investigation, but on the other hand, he only had until his face regained its usual appearance before the game was up in any case. “Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes."
"You know what, Greyback,” said Scabior. “I think there is a Dudley in there."
"Well, well,” said Greyback, and Harry could hear the tiniest note of trepidation in that callous voice, and knew that Greyback was wondering whether he had indeed just attacked and bound the son of a Ministry official. Harry’s heart was pounding against the ropes around his ribs; he would not have been surprised to know that Greyback could see it. “If you’re telling the truth, ugly, you’ve got nothing to fear from a trip to the Ministry. I expect your father’ll reward us just for picking you up."
"But,” said Harry, his mouth bone dry, “if you just let us —"
"Hey!” came a shout from inside the tent. “Look at this, Greyback!"
"Ve-e-ry nice,” said Greyback appreciatively, taking it from his companion. “Oh, very nice indeed. Looks goblin-made, that. Where did you get something like this?"
"It’s my father’s,” Harry lied, hoping against hope that it was too dark for Greyback to see the name etched just below the hilt. “We borrowed it to cut firewood —"
"’ang on a minute, Greyback! Look at this, in the Prophet!"
"‘’ermione Granger,’” Scabior was saying, “‘the Mudblood who is known to be traveling with ’arry Potter.’"
"You know what, little girly? This picture looks a hell of a lot like you."
"It isn’t! It isn’t me!"
"‘ . . . known to be traveling with Harry Potter,’"
"Well, this changes things, doesn’t it?"
"What’s that on your forehead, Vernon?"
"Don’t touch it!"
"I thought you wore glasses, Potter?"
"I found glasses!” yelped one of the Snatchers skulking in the background. “There was glasses in the tent, Greyback, wait —"
"It is!” rasped Greyback. “We’ve caught Potter!"
". . . to the Ministry?"
"To hell with the Ministry,” growled Greyback. “They’ll take the credit, and we won’t get a look in. I say we take him straight to You-Know-Who."
"Will you summon ’im? ’ere?"
"No,” snarled Greyback, “I haven’t got — they say he’s using the Malfoys’ place as a base. We’ll take the boy there."
". . . completely sure it’s him? ’Cause if it ain’t, Greyback, we’re dead."
"Who’s in charge here?” roared Greyback, covering his moment of inadequacy. “I say that’s Potter, and him plus his wand, that’s two hundred thousand Galleons right there! But if you’re too gutless to come along, any of you, it’s all for me, and with any luck, I’ll get the girl thrown in!"
"All right!” said Scabior. “All right, we’re in! And what about the rest of ’em, Greyback, what’ll we do with ’em?"
"Might as well take the lot. We’ve got two Mudbloods, that’s another ten Galleons. Give me the sword as well. If they’re rubies, that’s another small fortune right there."
"Grab hold and make it tight. I’ll do Potter!” said Greyback, seizing a fistful of Harry’s hair; Harry could feel his long yellow nails scratching his scalp. “On three! One — two — three —"
"How do we get in? They’re locked, Greyback, I can’t — blimey!"
"State your purpose!"
"We’ve got Potter!” Greyback roared triumphantly. “We’ve captured Harry Potter!"
"Come on!"
"So, you have come. I thought you would . . . one day. But your journey was pointless. I never had it."
"You lie!"
"What is this?"
"We’re here to see He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!"
"Who are you?"
"You know me!” There was resentment in the werewolf’s voice. “Fenrir Greyback! We’ve caught Harry Potter!"
"I know ’e’s swollen, ma’am, but it’s ’im!” piped up Scabior. “If you look a bit closer, you’ll see ’is scar. And this ’ere, see the girl? The Mudblood who’s been traveling around with ’im, ma’am. There’s no doubt it’s ’im, and we’ve got ’is wand as well! ’Ere, ma’am —"
"Bring them in,"
"Follow me,” said Narcissa, leading the way across the hall. “My son, Draco, is home for his Easter holidays. If that is Harry Potter, he will know."
"What is this?"
"They say they’ve got Potter,” said Narcissa’s cold voice. “Draco, come here."
"Well, boy?"
"Well, Draco?” said Lucius Malfoy. He sounded avid. “Is it? Is it Harry Potter?"
"I can’t — I can’t be sure,"
"But look at him carefully, look! Come closer!"
"Draco, if we are the ones who hand Potter over to the Dark Lord, everything will be forgiv —"
"Now, we won’t be forgetting who actually caught him, I hope, Mr. Malfoy?"
"Of course not, of course not!"
"What did you do to him?” Lucius asked Greyback. “How did he get into this state?"
"That wasn’t us."
"Looks more like a Stinging Jinx to me,"
"There’s something there,” he whispered, “it could be the scar, stretched tight. . . . Draco, come here, look properly! What do you think?"
"I don’t know,"
"We had better be certain, Lucius,” Narcissa called to her husband in her cold, clear voice. “Completely sure that it is Potter, before we summon the Dark Lord . . . They say this is his” — she was looking closely at the blackthorn wand — “but it does not resemble Ollivander’s description. . . . If we are mistaken, if we call the Dark Lord here for nothing . . . Remember what he did to Rowle and Dolohov?"
"What about the Mudblood, then?"
"Wait,” said Narcissa sharply. “Yes — yes, she was in Madam Malkin’s with Potter! I saw her picture in the Prophet! Look, Draco, isn’t it the Granger girl?"
"I . . . maybe . . . yeah."
"But then, that’s the Weasley boy!” shouted Lucius, striding around the bound prisoners to face Ron. “It’s them, Potter’s friends — Draco, look at him, isn’t it Arthur Weasley’s son, what’s his name — ?"
"Yeah,” said Draco again, his back to the prisoners. “It could be."
"What is this? What’s happened, Cissy?"
"But surely,” she said quietly, “this is the Mudblood girl? This is Granger?"
"Yes, yes, it’s Granger!” cried Lucius. “And beside her, we think, Potter! Potter and his friends, caught at last!"
"Potter?” shrieked Bellatrix, and she backed away, the better to take in Harry. “Are you sure? Well then, the Dark Lord must be informed at once!"
"I was about to call him!” said Lucius, and his hand actually closed upon Bellatrix’s wrist, preventing her from touching the Mark. “I shall summon him, Bella, Potter has been brought to my house, and it is therefore upon my authority —"
"Your authority!” she sneered, attempting to wrench her hand from his grasp. “You lost your authority when you lost your wand, Lucius! How dare you! Take your hands off me!"
"This is nothing to do with you, you did not capture the boy —"
"Begging your pardon, Mr. Malfoy,” interjected Greyback, “but it’s us that caught Potter, and it’s us that’ll be claiming the gold —"
"Gold!” laughed Bellatrix, still attempting to throw off her brother-in-law, her free hand groping in her pocket for her wand. “Take your gold, filthy scavenger, what do I want with gold? I seek only the honor of his — of —"
"STOP!” shrieked Bellatrix. “Do not touch it, we shall all perish if the Dark Lord comes now!"
"What is that?"
"Sword,"
"Give it to me."
"It’s not yorn, missus, it’s mine, I reckon I found it."
"What d’you think you’re playing at, woman?"
"Stupefy!” she screamed. “Stupefy!"
"Where did you get this sword?"
"How dare you?” he snarled, his mouth the only thing that could move as he was forced to gaze up at her. He bared his pointed teeth. “Release me, woman!"
"Where did you find this sword?” she repeated, brandishing it in his face. “Snape sent it to my vault in Gringotts!"
"It was in their tent,” rasped Greyback. “Release me, I say!"
"Draco, move this scum outside,” said Bellatrix, indicating the unconscious men. “If you haven’t got the guts to finish them, then leave them in the courtyard for me."
"Don’t you dare speak to Draco like —"
"Be quiet! The situation is graver than you can possibly imagine, Cissy! We have a very serious problem!"
"If it is indeed Potter, he must not be harmed,” she muttered, more to herself than to the others. “The Dark Lord wishes to dispose of Potter himself. . . . But if he finds out . . . I must . . . I must know. . . ."
"The prisoners must be placed in the cellar, while I think what to do!"
"This is my house, Bella, you don’t give orders in my —"
"Do it! You have no idea of the danger we are in!"
"Take these prisoners down to the cellar, Greyback."
"Wait,” said Bellatrix sharply. “All except . . . except for the Mudblood."
"No!” shouted Ron. “You can have me, keep me!"
"If she dies under questioning, I’ll take you next,” she said. “Blood traitor is next to Mudblood in my book. Take them downstairs, Greyback, and make sure they are secure, but do nothing more to them — yet."
"Reckon she’ll let me have a bit of the girl when she’s finished with her?” Greyback crooned as he forced them along the corridor. “I’d say I’ll get a bite or two, wouldn’t you, ginger?"
"HERMIONE!” Ron bellowed, and he started to writhe and struggle against the ropes tying them together, so that Harry staggered. “HERMIONE!"
"Be quiet!” Harry said. “Shut up, Ron, we need to work out a way —"
"HERMIONE! HERMIONE!"
"We need a plan, stop yelling — we need to get these ropes off —"
"Harry?” came a whisper through the darkness. “Ron? Is that you?"
"Harry? Ron?"
"Luna?"
"Yes, it’s me! Oh no, I didn’t want you to be caught!"
"Luna, can you help us get these ropes off?"
"Oh yes, I expect so. . . . There’s an old nail we use if we need to break anything. . . . Just a moment . . ."
"HERMIONE! HERMIONE!"
"Mr. Ollivander?” Harry could hear Luna saying. “Mr. Ollivander, have you got the nail? If you just move over a little bit . . . I think it was beside the water jug. . . ."
"You’ll need to stay still,"
"I’m going to ask you again! Where did you get this sword? Where?"
"We found it — we found it — PLEASE!"
"Ron, please stay still!” Luna whispered. “I can’t see what I’m doing —"
"My pocket!” said Ron. “In my pocket, there’s a Deluminator, and it’s full of light!"
"Oh, that’s much easier, thanks, Ron,” said Luna, and she began hacking at their bindings again. “Hello, Dean!"
"You are lying, filthy Mudblood, and I know it! You have been inside my vault at Gringotts! Tell the truth, tell the truth!"
"HERMIONE!"
"What else did you take? What else have you got? Tell me the truth or, I swear, I shall run you through with this knife!"
"There!"
"Thanks"
"There’s no way out, Ron,” said Luna, watching his fruitless efforts. “The cellar is completely escape-proof. I tried, at first. Mr. Ollivander has been here for a long time, he’s tried everything."
"What else did you take, what else? ANSWER ME! CRUCIO!"
"Help us!” he yelled at it in mad desperation. “We’re in the cellar of Malfoy Manor, help us!"
"HERMIONE! HERMIONE!"
"How did you get into my vault?” they heard Bellatrix scream. “Did that dirty little goblin in the cellar help you?"
"We only met him tonight!” Hermione sobbed. “We’ve never been inside your vault. . . . It isn’t the real sword! It’s a copy, just a copy!"
"A copy?” screeched Bellatrix. “Oh, a likely story!"
"But we can find out easily!” came Lucius’s voice. “Draco, fetch the goblin, he can tell us whether the sword is real or not!"
"Griphook,” he whispered into the goblin’s pointed ear, “you must tell them that sword’s a fake, they mustn’t know it’s the real one, Griphook, please —"
"Stand back. Line up against the back wall. Don’t try anything, or I’ll kill you!"
"DOB — !"
"Harry Potter,” he squeaked in the tiniest quiver of a voice, “Dobby has come to rescue you."
"But how did you — ?"
"You can Disapparate out of this cellar?"
"And you can take humans with you?"
"Right. Dobby, I want you to grab Luna, Dean, and Mr. Ollivander, and take them — take them to —"
"Bill and Fleur’s,” said Ron. “Shell Cottage on the outskirts of Tinworth!"
"And then come back,” said Harry. “Can you do that, Dobby?"
"Of course, Harry Potter,"
"Harry, we want to help you!"
"We can’t leave you here,"
"Go, both of you! We’ll see you at Bill and Fleur’s."
"Kill me, then, Voldemort, I welcome death! But my death will not bring you what you seek. . . . There is so much you do not understand. . . ."
"Go!” Harry beseeched Luna and Dean. “Go! We’ll follow, just go!"
"What was that?” shouted Lucius Malfoy from over their heads. “Did you hear that? What was that noise in the cellar?"
"Draco — no, call Wormtail! Make him go and check!"
"We’re going to have to try and tackle him,” he whispered to Ron. They had no choice: The moment anyone entered the room and saw the absence of three prisoners, they were lost. “Leave the lights on,"
"Stand back,” came Wormtail’s voice. “Stand away from the door. I am coming in."
"What is it, Wormtail?"
"Nothing!” Ron called back, in a passable imitation of Wormtail’s wheezy voice. “All fine!"
"You’re going to kill me?” Harry choked, attempting to prise off the metal fingers. “After I saved your life? You owe me, Wormtail!"
"And we’ll have that,"
"No —"
"No!"
"Relashio!"
"Well?” Bellatrix said to Griphook. “Is it the true sword?"
"No,” said Griphook. “It is a fake."
"Are you sure?” panted Bellatrix. “Quite sure?"
"Yes,"
"Good,” she said, and with a casual flick of her wand she slashed another deep cut into the goblin’s face, and he dropped with a yell at her feet. She kicked him aside. “And now,” she said in a voice that burst with triumph, “we call the Dark Lord!"
"Kill me, then!” demanded the old man. “You will not win, you cannot win! That wand will never, ever be yours —"
"And I think,” said Bellatrix’s voice, “we can dispose of the Mudblood. Greyback, take her if you want her."
"NOOOOOOOOOOOO!"
"Expelliarmus!” he roared, pointing Wormtail’s wand at Bellatrix, and hers flew into the air and was caught by Harry, who had sprinted after Ron. Lucius, Narcissa, Draco, and Greyback wheeled about; Harry yelled, “Stupefy!"
"STOP OR SHE DIES!"
"Drop your wands,” she whispered. “Drop them, or we’ll see exactly how filthy her blood is!"
"I said, drop them!"
"All right!"
"Good!” she leered. “Draco, pick them up! The Dark Lord is coming, Harry Potter! Your death approaches!"
"Now,” said Bellatrix softly, as Draco hurried back to her with the wands, “Cissy, I think we ought to tie these little heroes up again, while Greyback takes care of Miss Mudblood. I am sure the Dark Lord will not begrudge you the girl, Greyback, after what you have done tonight."
"Stupefy!"
"Dobby!” she screamed, and even Bellatrix froze. “You! You dropped the chandelier — ?"
"You must not hurt Harry Potter,"
"Kill him, Cissy!"
"You dirty little monkey!” bawled Bellatrix. “How dare you take a witch’s wand, how dare you defy your masters?"
"Dobby has no master!” squealed the elf. “Dobby is a free elf, and Dobby has come to save Harry Potter and his friends!"
"Ron, catch — and GO!"
"Are you all right?"
"Dobby, is this Shell Cottage?” he whispered, clutching the two wands he had brought from the Malfoys’, ready to fight if he needed to. “Have we come to the right place? Dobby?"
"DOBBY!"
"Dobby — no — HELP!” Harry bellowed toward the cottage, toward the people moving there. “HELP!"
"Dobby, no, don’t die, don’t die —"
"Harry . . . Potter . . ."
"Dobby . . . Dobby . . ."
"Hermione?” he said suddenly. “Where is she?"
"Ron’s taken her inside,” said Bill. “She’ll be all right."
"I want to do it properly,” were the first words of which Harry was fully conscious of speaking. “Not by magic. Have you got a spade?"
"How’s Hermione?"
"Better,” said Ron. “Fleur’s looking after her."
"We should close his eyes."
"There,” she said softly. “Now he could be sleeping."
"I think we ought to say something,” piped up Luna. “I’ll go first, shall I?"
"Thank you so much, Dobby, for rescuing me from that cellar. It’s so unfair that you had to die, when you were so good and brave. I’ll always remember what you did for us. I hope you’re happy now."
"Yeah . . . thanks, Dobby."
"Thanks,"
"Good-bye, Dobby,"
"D’you mind if I stay here a moment?"
". . . lucky that Ginny’s on holiday. If she’d been at Hogwarts, they could have taken her before we reached her. Now we know she’s safe too."
"I’ve been getting them all out of the Burrow,” he explained. “Moved them to Muriel’s. The Death Eaters know Ron’s with you now, they’re bound to target the family — don’t apologize,” he added at the sight of Harry’s expression. “It was always a matter of time, Dad’s been saying so for months. We’re the biggest blood-traitor family there is."
"How are they protected?"
"Fidelius Charm. Dad’s Secret-Keeper. And we’ve done it on this cottage too; I’m Secret-Keeper here. None of us can go to work, but that’s hardly the most important thing now. Once Ollivander and Griphook are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too. There isn’t much room here, but she’s got plenty. Griphook’s legs are on the mend, Fleur’s given him Skele-Gro; we could probably move them in an hour or —"
"No,” Harry said, and Bill looked startled. “I need both of them here. I need to talk to them. It’s important."
"I’m going to wash,” Harry told Bill, looking down at his hands, still covered in mud and Dobby’s blood. “Then I’ll need to see them, straightaway."
"I need to speak to Griphook and Ollivander,"
"No,” said Fleur. “You will ’ave to wait, ’Arry. Zey are both ill, tired —"
"I’m sorry,” he said without heat, “but it can’t wait. I need to talk to them now. Privately — and separately. It’s urgent."
"Harry, what the hell’s going on?” asked Bill. “You turn up here with a dead house-elf and a half-conscious goblin, Hermione looks as though she’s been tortured, and Ron’s just refused to tell me anything —"
"We can’t tell you what we’re doing,” said Harry flatly. “You’re in the Order, Bill, you know Dumbledore left us a mission. We’re not supposed to talk about it to anyone else."
"All right. Who do you want to talk to first?"
"Griphook,” Harry said. “I’ll speak to Griphook first."
"Up here, then,"
"I need you two as well!"
"How are you?” Harry asked Hermione. “You were amazing — coming up with that story when she was hurting you like that —"
"What are we doing now, Harry?"
"You’ll see. Come on."
"In here,"
"I’m sorry to take you out of bed,” said Harry. “How are your legs?"
"Painful,” replied the goblin. “But mending."
"You probably don’t remember —"
"— that I was the goblin who showed you to your vault, the first time you ever visited Gringotts?” said Griphook. “I remember, Harry Potter. Even amongst goblins, you are very famous."
"You buried the elf,” he said, sounding unexpectedly rancorous. “I watched you from the window of the bedroom next door."
"Yes,"
"You are an unusual wizard, Harry Potter."
"In what way?"
"You dug the grave."
"So?"
"Griphook, I need to ask —"
"You also rescued a goblin."
"What?"
"You brought me here. Saved me."
"Well, I take it you’re not sorry?"
"No, Harry Potter,” said Griphook, and with one finger he twisted the thin black beard upon his chin, “but you are a very odd wizard."
"Right,” said Harry. “Well, I need some help, Griphook, and you can give it to me."
"I need to break into a Gringotts vault."
"Harry —"
"Break into a Gringotts vault?” repeated the goblin, wincing a little as he shifted his position upon the bed. “It is impossible."
"No, it isn’t,” Ron contradicted him. “It’s been done."
"Yeah,” said Harry. “The same day I first met you, Griphook. My birthday, seven years ago."
"The vault in question was empty at the time,” snapped the goblin, and Harry understood that even though Griphook had left Gringotts, he was offended at the idea of its defenses being breached. “Its protection was minimal."
"Well, the vault we need to get into isn’t empty, and I’m guessing its protection will be pretty powerful,” said Harry. “It belongs to the Lestranges."
"You have no chance,” said Griphook flatly. “No chance at all. If you seek beneath our floors, a treasure that was never yours —"
"Thief, you have been warned, beware — yeah, I know, I remember,” said Harry. “But I’m not trying to get myself any treasure, I’m not trying to take anything for personal gain. Can you believe that?"
"If there was a wizard of whom I would believe that they did not seek personal gain,” said Griphook finally, “it would be you, Harry Potter. Goblins and elves are not used to the protection or the respect that you have shown this night. Not from wand-carriers."
"Wand-carriers,"
"The right to carry a wand,” said the goblin quietly, “has long been contested between wizards and goblins."
"Well, goblins can do magic without wands,"
"That is immaterial! Wizards refuse to share the secrets of wandlore with other magical beings, they deny us the possibility of extending our powers!"
"Well, goblins won’t share any of their magic either,” said Ron. “You won’t tell us how to make swords and armor the way you do. Goblins know how to work metal in a way wizards have never —"
"It doesn’t matter,” said Harry, noting Griphook’s rising color. “This isn’t about wizards versus goblins or any other sort of magical creature —"
"But it is, it is about precisely that! As the Dark Lord becomes ever more powerful, your race is set still more firmly above mine! Gringotts falls under Wizarding rule, house-elves are slaughtered, and who amongst the wand-carriers protests?"
"We do!” said Hermione. She had sat up straight, her eyes bright. “We protest! And I’m hunted quite as much as any goblin or elf, Griphook! I’m a Mudblood!"
"Don’t call yourself —"
"Why shouldn’t I?” said Hermione. “Mudblood, and proud of it! I’ve got no higher position under this new order than you have, Griphook! It was me they chose to torture, back at the Malfoys’!"
"Did you know that it was Harry who set Dobby free?” she asked. “Did you know that we’ve wanted elves to be freed for years?” (Ron fidgeted uncomfortably on the arm of Hermione’s chair.) “You can’t want You-Know-Who defeated more than we do, Griphook!"
"What do you seek within the Lestranges’ vault?” he asked abruptly. “The sword that lies inside it is a fake. This is the real one.” He looked from one to the other of them. “I think that you already know this. You asked me to lie for you back there."
"But the fake sword isn’t the only thing in that vault, is it?” asked Harry. “Perhaps you’ve seen the other things in there?"
"It is against our code to speak of the secrets of Gringotts. We are the guardians of fabulous treasures. We have a duty to the objects placed in our care, which were, so often, wrought by our fingers."
"So young,” he said finally, “to be fighting so many."
"Will you help us?” said Harry. “We haven’t got a hope of breaking in without a goblin’s help. You’re our one chance."
"I shall . . . think about it,"
"But —"
"Thank you,"
"I think,” he said, settling himself ostentatiously upon Bill and Fleur’s bed, “that the Skele-Gro has finished its work. I may be able to sleep at last. Forgive me. . . ."
"Yeah, of course,"
"Little git,” whispered Ron. “He’s enjoying keeping us hanging."
"Harry,” whispered Hermione, pulling them both away from the door, into the middle of the still-dark landing, “are you saying what I think you’re saying? Are you saying there’s a Horcrux in the Lestranges’ vault?"
"Yes,” said Harry. “Bellatrix was terrified when she thought we’d been in there, she was beside herself. Why? What did she think we’d seen, what else did she think we might have taken? Something she was petrified You-Know-Who would find out about."
"But I thought we were looking for places You-Know-Who’s been, places he’s done something important?” said Ron, looking baffled. “Was he ever inside the Lestranges’ vault?"
"I don’t know whether he was ever inside Gringotts,” said Harry. “He never had gold there when he was younger, because nobody left him anything. He would have seen the bank from the outside, though, the first time he ever went to Diagon Alley."
"I think he would have envied anyone who had a key to a Gringotts vault. I think he’d have seen it as a real symbol of belonging to the Wizarding world. And don’t forget, he trusted Bellatrix and her husband. They were his most devoted servants before he fell, and they went looking for him after he vanished. He said it the night he came back, I heard him."
"I don’t think he’d have told Bellatrix it was a Horcrux, though. He never told Lucius Malfoy the truth about the diary. He probably told her it was a treasured possession and asked her to place it in her vault. The safest place in the world for anything you want to hide, Hagrid told me . . . except for Hogwarts."
"You really understand him."
"Bits of him,” said Harry. “Bits . . . I just wish I’d understood Dumbledore as much. But we’ll see. Come on — Ollivander now."
"Come in!"
"Mr. Ollivander, I’m sorry to disturb you,"
"My dear boy.” Ollivander’s voice was feeble. “You rescued us. I thought we would die in that place. I can never thank you . . . never thank you . . . enough."
"We were glad to do it."
"Mr. Ollivander, I need some help."
"Anything. Anything,"
"Can you mend this? Is it possible?"
"Holly and phoenix feather,” said Ollivander in a tremulous voice. “Eleven inches. Nice and supple."
"Yes,” said Harry. “Can you — ?"
"No,” whispered Ollivander. “I am sorry, very sorry, but a wand that has suffered this degree of damage cannot be repaired by any means that I know of."
"Can you identify these?"
"Walnut and dragon heartstring,” he said. “Twelve-and-three-quarter inches. Unyielding. This wand belonged to Bellatrix Lestrange."
"And this one?"
"Hawthorn and unicorn hair. Ten inches precisely. Reasonably springy. This was the wand of Draco Malfoy."
"Was?” repeated Harry. “Isn’t it still his?"
"Perhaps not. If you took it —"
"— I did —"
"— then it may be yours. Of course, the manner of taking matters. Much also depends upon the wand itself. In general, however, where a wand has been won, its allegiance will change."
"You talk about wands like they’ve got feelings,” said Harry, “like they can think for themselves."
"The wand chooses the wizard,” said Ollivander. “That much has always been clear to those of us who have studied wandlore."
"A person can still use a wand that hasn’t chosen them, though?"
"Oh yes, if you are any wizard at all you will be able to channel your magic through almost any instrument. The best results, however, must always come where there is the strongest affinity between wizard and wand. These connections are complex. An initial attraction, and then a mutual quest for experience, the wand learning from the wizard, the wizard from the wand."
"I took this wand from Draco Malfoy by force,” said Harry. “Can I use it safely?"
"I think so. Subtle laws govern wand ownership, but the conquered wand will usually bend its will to its new master."
"So I should use this one?"
"Chestnut and dragon heartstring. Nine-and-a-quarter inches. Brittle. I was forced to make this shortly after my kidnapping, for Peter Pettigrew. Yes, if you won it, it is more likely to do your bidding, and do it well, than another wand."
"And this holds true for all wands, does it?"
"I think so,” replied Ollivander, his protuberant eyes upon Harry’s face. “You ask deep questions, Mr. Potter. Wandlore is a complex and mysterious branch of magic."
"So, it isn’t necessary to kill the previous owner to take true possession of a wand?"
"Necessary? No, I should not say that it is necessary to kill."
"There are legends, though,” said Harry, and as his heart rate quickened, the pain in his scar became more intense; he was sure that Voldemort had decided to put his idea into action. “Legends about a wand — or wands — that have passed from hand to hand by murder."
"Only one wand, I think,"
"And You-Know-Who is interested in it, isn’t he?"
"I — how?” croaked Ollivander, and he looked appealingly at Ron and Hermione for help. “How do you know this?"
"He wanted you to tell him how to overcome the connection between our wands,"
"He tortured me, you must understand that! The Cruciatus Curse, I — I had no choice but to tell him what I knew, what I guessed!"
"I understand,” said Harry. “You told him about the twin cores? You said he just had to borrow another wizard’s wand?"
"But it didn’t work,” Harry went on. “Mine still beat the borrowed wand. Do you know why that is?"
"I had . . . never heard of such a thing. Your wand performed something unique that night. The connection of the twin cores is incredibly rare, yet why your wand should have snapped the borrowed wand, I do not know. . . ."
"We were talking about the other wand, the wand that changes hands by murder. When You-Know-Who realized my wand had done something strange, he came back and asked about that other wand, didn’t he?"
"How do you know this?"
"Yes, he asked,” whispered Ollivander. “He wanted to know everything I could tell him about the wand variously known as the Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny, or the Elder Wand."
"The Dark Lord,” said Ollivander in hushed and frightened tones, “had always been happy with the wand I made him — yew and phoenix feather, thirteen-and-a-half inches — until he discovered the connection of the twin cores. Now he seeks another, more powerful wand, as the only way to conquer yours."
"But he’ll know soon, if he doesn’t already, that mine’s broken beyond repair,"
"No!” said Hermione, sounding frightened. “He can’t know that, Harry, how could he — ?"
"Priori Incantatem,” said Harry. “We left your wand and the blackthorn wand at the Malfoys’, Hermione. If they examine them properly, make them re-create the spells they’ve cast lately, they’ll see that yours broke mine, they’ll see that you tried and failed to mend it, and they’ll realize that I’ve been using the blackthorn one ever since."
"Let’s not worry about that now —"
"The Dark Lord no longer seeks the Elder Wand only for your destruction, Mr. Potter. He is determined to possess it because he believes it will make him truly invulnerable."
"And will it?"
"The owner of the Elder Wand must always fear attack,” said Ollivander, “but the idea of the Dark Lord in possession of the Deathstick is, I must admit . . . formidable."
"You — you really think this wand exists, then, Mr. Ollivander?"
"Oh yes,” said Ollivander. “Yes, it is perfectly possible to trace the wand’s course through history. There are gaps, of course, and long ones, where it vanishes from view, temporarily lost or hidden; but always it resurfaces. It has certain identifying characteristics that those who are learned in wandlore recognize. There are written accounts, some of them obscure, that I and other wandmakers have made it our business to study. They have the ring of authenticity."
"So you — you don’t think it can be a fairy tale or a myth?"
"No,” said Ollivander. “Whether it needs to pass by murder, I do not know. Its history is bloody, but that may be simply due to the fact that it is such a desirable object, and arouses such passions in wizards. Immensely powerful, dangerous in the wrong hands, and an object of incredible fascination to all of us who study the power of wands."
"Mr. Ollivander,” said Harry, “you told You-Know-Who that Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand, didn’t you?"
"But how — how do you — ?"
"Never mind how I know it,” said Harry, closing his eyes momentarily as his scar burned and he saw, for mere seconds, a vision of the main street in Hogsmeade, still dark, because it was so much farther north. “You told You-Know-Who that Gregorovitch had the wand?"
"It was a rumor,” whispered Ollivander. “A rumor, years and years ago, long before you were born! I believe Gregorovitch himself started it. You can see how good it would be for business: that he was studying and duplicating the qualities of the Elder Wand!"
"Yes, I can see that,” said Harry. He stood up. “Mr. Ollivander, one last thing, and then we’ll let you get some rest. What do you know about the Deathly Hallows?"
"The — the what?"
"The Deathly Hallows."
"I’m afraid I don’t know what you’re talking about. Is this still something to do with wands?"
"Thank you,” said Harry. “Thank you very much. We’ll leave you to get some rest now."
"He was torturing me!” he gasped. “The Cruciatus Curse . . . you have no idea. . . ."
"I do,” said Harry. “I really do. Please get some rest. Thank you for telling me all of this."
"Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand a long time ago,” he said. “I saw You-Know-Who trying to find him. When he tracked him down, he found that Gregorovitch didn’t have it anymore: It was stolen from him by Grindelwald. How Grindelwald found out that Gregorovitch had it, I don’t know — but if Gregorovitch was stupid enough to spread the rumor, it can’t have been that difficult."
"And Grindelwald used the Elder Wand to become powerful. And at the height of his power, when Dumbledore knew he was the only one who could stop him, he dueled Grindelwald and beat him, and he took the Elder Wand."
"Dumbledore had the Elder Wand?” said Ron. “But then — where is it now?"
"At Hogwarts,"
"But then, let’s go!” said Ron urgently. “Harry, let’s go and get it before he does!"
"It’s too late for that,” said Harry. He could not help himself, but clutched his head, trying to help it resist. “He knows where it is. He’s there now."
"Harry!” Ron said furiously. “How long have you known this — why have we been wasting time? Why did you talk to Griphook first? We could have gone — we could still go —"
"No,” said Harry, and he sank to his knees in the grass. “Hermione’s right. Dumbledore didn’t want me to have it. He didn’t want me to take it. He wanted me to get the Horcruxes."
"The unbeatable wand, Harry!"
"I’m not supposed to . . . I’m supposed to get the Horcruxes. . . ."
"I shall join you in the castle shortly,” he said in his high, cold voice. “Leave me now."
"What if Dumbledore wanted us to work out the symbol in time to get the wand?” “What if working out what the symbol meant made you ‘worthy’ to get the Hallows?” “Harry, if that really is the Elder Wand, how the hell are we supposed to finish off You-Know-Who?"
"You could never have done that, Harry,” she said again and again. “You couldn’t have broken into Dumbledore’s grave."
"But is he dead?"
"Yes, he is, Ron, please don’t start that again!"
"Look at the facts, Hermione,” said Ron, speaking across Harry, who continued to gaze at the horizon. “The silver doe. The sword. The eye Harry saw in the mirror —"
"Harry admits he could have imagined the eye! Don’t you, Harry?"
"I could have,"
"But you don’t think you did, do you?"
"No, I don’t,"
"There you go!” said Ron quickly, before Hermione could carry on. “If it wasn’t Dumbledore, explain how Dobby knew we were in the cellar, Hermione?"
"I can’t — but can you explain how Dumbledore sent him to us if he’s lying in a tomb at Hogwarts?"
"I dunno, it could’ve been his ghost!"
"Dumbledore wouldn’t come back as a ghost,” said Harry. There was little about Dumbledore he was sure of now, but he knew that much. “He would have gone on."
"What d’you mean, ‘gone on’?” asked Ron, but before Harry could say any more, a voice behind them said, “’Arry?"
"’Arry, Grip’ook would like to speak to you. ’E eez in ze smallest bedroom, ’e says ’e does not want to be over’eard."
"I have reached my decision, Harry Potter,” said the goblin, who was sitting cross-legged in a low chair, drumming its arms with his spindly fingers. “Though the goblins of Gringotts will consider it base treachery, I have decided to help you —"
"That’s great!” said Harry, relief surging through him. “Griphook, thank you, we’re really —"
"— in return,” said the goblin firmly, “for payment."
"How much do you want? I’ve got gold."
"Not gold,” said Griphook. “I have gold."
"I want the sword. The sword of Godric Gryffindor."
"You can’t have that,” he said. “I’m sorry."
"Then,” said the goblin softly, “we have a problem."
"We can give you something else,” said Ron eagerly. “I’ll bet the Lestranges have got loads of stuff, you can take your pick once we get into the vault."
"I am not a thief, boy! I am not trying to procure treasures to which I have no right!"
"The sword’s ours —"
"It is not,"
"We’re Gryffindors, and it was Godric Gryffindor’s —"
"And before it was Gryffindor’s, whose was it?"
"No one’s,” said Ron. “It was made for him, wasn’t it?"
"No!” cried the goblin, bristling with anger as he pointed a long finger at Ron. “Wizarding arrogance again! That sword was Ragnuk the First’s, taken from him by Godric Gryffindor! It is a lost treasure, a masterpiece of goblinwork! It belongs with the goblins! The sword is the price of my hire, take it or leave it!"
"We need to discuss this, Griphook, if that’s all right. Could you give us a few minutes?"
"He’s having a laugh. We can’t let him have that sword."
"It is true?” Harry asked Hermione. “Was the sword stolen by Gryffindor?"
"I don’t know,” she said hopelessly. “Wizarding history often skates over what the wizards have done to other magical races, but there’s no account that I know of that says Gryffindor stole the sword."
"It’ll be one of those goblin stories,” said Ron, “about how the wizards are always trying to get one over on them. I suppose we should think ourselves lucky he hasn’t asked for one of our wands."
"Goblins have got good reason to dislike wizards, Ron,” said Hermione. “They’ve been treated brutally in the past."
"Goblins aren’t exactly fluffy little bunnies, though, are they?” said Ron. “They’ve killed plenty of us. They’ve fought dirty too."
"But arguing with Griphook about whose race is most underhanded and violent isn’t going to make him more likely to help us, is it?"
"Okay,” said Ron, and Harry turned back to face him, “how’s this? We tell Griphook we need the sword until we get inside the vault, and then he can have it. There’s a fake in there, isn’t there? We switch them, and give him the fake."
"Ron, he’d know the difference better than we would!” said Hermione. “He’s the only one who realized there had been a swap!"
"Yeah, but we could scarper before he realizes —"
"That,” she said quietly, “is despicable. Ask for his help, then double-cross him? And you wonder why goblins don’t like wizards, Ron?"
"All right, all right! It was the only thing I could think of! What’s your solution, then?"
"We need to offer him something else, something just as valuable."
"Brilliant. I’ll go and get one of our other ancient goblin-made swords and you can gift wrap it."
"Maybe he’s lying,” Harry said, opening his eyes again. “Griphook. Maybe Gryffindor didn’t take the sword. How do we know the goblin version of history’s right?"
"Does it make a difference?"
"Changes how I feel about it,"
"We’ll tell him he can have the sword after he’s helped us get into that vault — but we’ll be careful to avoid telling him exactly when he can have it."
"Harry, we can’t —"
"He can have it,” Harry went on, “after we’ve used it on all of the Horcruxes. I’ll make sure he gets it then. I’ll keep my word."
"But that could be years!"
"I know that, but he needn’t. I won’t be lying . . . really."
"I don’t like it,"
"Nor do I, much,"
"Well, I think it’s genius,” said Ron, standing up again. “Let’s go and tell him."
"I have your word, Harry Potter, that you will give me the sword of Gryffindor if I help you?"
"Yes,"
"Then shake,"
"So. We begin!"
"I have visited the Lestranges’ vault only once,” Griphook told them, “on the occasion I was told to place inside it the false sword. It is one of the most ancient chambers. The oldest Wizarding families store their treasures at the deepest level, where the vaults are largest and best protected. . . ."
"There’s really only enough left for one of us,"
"That’ll be enough,"
"I’m sorry,” he told Fleur, one blustery April evening as he helped her prepare dinner. “I never meant you to have to deal with all of this."
"’Arry, you saved my sister’s life, I do not forget."
"Anyway,” Fleur went on, pointing her wand at a pot of sauce on the stove, which began to bubble at once, “Mr. Ollivander leaves for Muriel’s zis evening. Zat will make zings easier. Ze goblin,” she scowled a little at the mention of him, “can move downstairs, and you, Ron, and Dean can take zat room."
"We don’t mind sleeping in the living room,” said Harry, who knew that Griphook would think poorly of having to sleep on the sofa; keeping Griphook happy was essential to their plans. “Don’t worry about us.” And when she tried to protest he went on, “We’ll be off your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I. We won’t need to be here much longer."
"But what do you mean?” she said, frowning at him, her wand pointing at the casserole dish now suspended in midair. “Of course you must not leave, you are safe ’ere!"
". . . and tiny little ears,” Luna was saying, “a bit like a hippo’s, Daddy says, only purple and hairy. And if you want to call them, you have to hum; they prefer a waltz, nothing too fast. . . ."
". . . and if you ever come to our house I’ll be able to show you the horn, Daddy wrote to me about it but I haven’t seen it yet, because the Death Eaters took me from the Hogwarts Express and I never got home for Christmas,"
"Luna, we told you,” Hermione called over to her. “That horn exploded. It came from an Erumpent, not a Crumple-Horned Snorkack —"
"No, it was definitely a Snorkack horn,” said Luna serenely. “Daddy told me. It will probably have re-formed by now, they mend themselves, you know."
"I’m going to miss you, Mr. Ollivander,"
"And I you, my dear,” said Ollivander, patting her on the shoulder. “You were an inexpressible comfort to me in that terrible place."
"So, au revoir, Mr. Ollivander,” said Fleur, kissing him on both cheeks. “And I wonder whezzer you could oblige me by delivering a package to Bill’s Auntie Muriel? I never returned ’er tiara."
"It will be an honor,” said Ollivander with a little bow, “the very least I can do in return for your generous hospitality."
"Moonstones and diamonds,” said Griphook, who had sidled into the room without Harry noticing. “Made by goblins, I think?"
"And paid for by wizards,"
"Everything’s fine,” he told Fleur. “Ollivander settled in, Mum and Dad say hello. Ginny sends you all her love. Fred and George are driving Muriel up the wall, they’re still operating an Owl-Order business out of her back room. It cheered her up to have her tiara back, though. She said she thought we’d stolen it."
"Ah, she eez charmante, your aunt,"
"Daddy’s made a tiara,” piped up Luna. “Well, more of a crown, really."
"Yes, he’s trying to re-create the lost diadem of Ravenclaw. He thinks he’s identified most of the main elements now. Adding the billywig wings really made a difference —"
"Who is it?"
"It is I, Remus John Lupin!” called a voice over the howling wind. Harry experienced a thrill of fear; what had happened? “I am a werewolf, married to Nymphadora Tonks, and you, the Secret-Keeper of Shell Cottage, told me the address and bade me come in an emergency!"
"Lupin,"
"It’s a boy! We’ve named him Ted, after Dora’s father!"
"Wha — ? Tonks — Tonks has had the baby?"
"Yes, yes, she’s had the baby!” shouted Lupin. All around the table came cries of delight, sighs of relief: Hermione and Fleur both squealed, “Congratulations!” and Ron said, “Blimey, a baby!"
"Yes — yes — a boy,"
"You’ll be godfather?"
"M-me?"
"You, yes, of course — Dora quite agrees, no one better —"
"I — yeah — blimey —"
"I can’t stay long, I must get back,” said Lupin, beaming around at them all: He looked years younger than Harry had ever seen him. “Thank you, thank you, Bill."
"To Teddy Remus Lupin,” said Lupin, “a great wizard in the making!"
"’Oo does ’e look like?"
"I think he looks like Dora, but she thinks he is like me. Not much hair. It looked black when he was born, but I swear it’s turned ginger in the hour since. Probably be blond by the time I get back. Andromeda says Tonks’s hair started changing color the day that she was born.” He drained his goblet. “Oh, go on then, just one more,"
"No . . . no . . . I really must get back,"
"Good-bye, good-bye — I’ll try and bring some pictures in a few days’ time — they’ll all be so glad to know that I’ve seen you —"
"Godfather, Harry!” said Bill as they walked into the kitchen together, helping clear the table. “A real honor! Congratulations!"
"I wanted a private word, actually, Harry. It hasn’t been easy to get an opportunity with the cottage this full of people."
"Harry, you’re planning something with Griphook."
"I know goblins,” said Bill. “I’ve worked for Gringotts ever since I left Hogwarts. As far as there can be friendship between wizards and goblins, I have goblin friends — or, at least, goblins I know well, and like."
"Harry, what do you want from Griphook, and what have you promised him in return?"
"I can’t tell you that,” said Harry. “Sorry, Bill."
"Wait,” Bill told her. “Just a moment."
"Then I have to say this,” Bill went on. “If you have struck any kind of bargain with Griphook, and most particularly if that bargain involves treasure, you must be exceptionally careful. Goblin notions of ownership, payment, and repayment are not the same as human ones."
"What do you mean?"
"We are talking about a different breed of being,” said Bill. “Dealings between wizards and goblins have been fraught for centuries — but you’ll know all that from History of Magic. There has been fault on both sides, I would never claim that wizards have been innocent. However, there is a belief among some goblins, and those at Gringotts are perhaps most prone to it, that wizards cannot be trusted in matters of gold and treasure, that they have no respect for goblin ownership."
"I respect —"
"You don’t understand, Harry, nobody could understand unless they have lived with goblins. To a goblin, the rightful and true master of any object is the maker, not the purchaser. All goblin-made objects are, in goblin eyes, rightfully theirs."
"But if it was bought —"
"— then they would consider it rented by the one who had paid the money. They have, however, great difficulty with the idea of goblin-made objects passing from wizard to wizard. You saw Griphook’s face when the tiara passed under his eyes. He disapproves. I believe he thinks, as do the fiercest of his kind, that it ought to have been returned to the goblins once the original purchaser died. They consider our habit of keeping goblin-made objects, passing them from wizard to wizard without further payment, little more than theft."
"All I am saying,” said Bill, setting his hand on the door back into the sitting room, “is to be very careful what you promise goblins, Harry. It would be less dangerous to break into Gringotts than to renege on a promise to a goblin."
"Right,” said Harry as Bill opened the door, “yeah. Thanks. I’ll bear that in mind."
"And you’ll be using her actual wand,” said Harry, nodding toward the walnut wand, “so I reckon you’ll be pretty convincing."
"I hate this thing,” she said in a low voice. “I really hate it. It feels all wrong, it doesn’t work properly for me. . . . It’s like a bit of her."
"It’ll probably help you get in character, though,” said Ron. “Think what that wand’s done!"
"But that’s my point!” said Hermione. “This is the wand that tortured Neville’s mum and dad, and who knows how many other people? This is the wand that killed Sirius!"
"I miss my wand,” Hermione said miserably. “I wish Mr. Ollivander could have made me another one too."
"We’ve just been checking the last-minute stuff, Griphook. We’ve told Bill and Fleur we’re leaving tomorrow, and we’ve told them not to get up to see us off."
"He could give my mother lessons,” growled Ron, as the goblin’s long fingers kept appearing around the edges of doors. With Bill’s warning in mind, Harry could not help suspecting that Griphook was on the watch for possible skulduggery. Hermione disapproved so heartily of the planned double-cross that Harry had given up attempting to pick her brains on how best to do it; Ron, on the rare occasions that they had been able to snatch a few Griphook-free moments, had come up with nothing better than “We’ll just have to wing it, mate."
"She tasted disgusting, worse than Gurdyroots! Okay, Ron, come here so I can do you. . . ."
"Right, but remember, I don’t like the beard too long —"
"Oh, for heaven’s sake, this isn’t about looking handsome —"
"It’s not that, it gets in the way! But I liked my nose a bit shorter, try and do it the way you did last time."
"There,” said Hermione, “how does he look, Harry?"
"Well, he’s not my type, but he’ll do,” said Harry. “Shall we go, then?"
"I should climb up now, Harry Potter, I think?"
"Perfect,” she said, bending down to check Harry’s feet. “I can’t see a thing. Let’s go."
"Madam Lestrange,"
"Good morning,"
"Too polite,” Harry whispered in Hermione’s ear as they passed out of the inn into the tiny backyard. “You need to treat people like they’re scum!"
"Okay, okay!"
"My children!” he bellowed, pointing at her. His voice was cracked, high-pitched; he sounded distraught. “Where are my children? What has he done with them? You know, you know!"
"I — I really —"
"Why, Madam Lestrange!"
"It’s Travers,"
"And what do you want?"
"He’s another Death Eater!"
"I merely sought to greet you,” said Travers coolly, “but if my presence is not welcome . . ."
"No, no, not at all, Travers,” said Hermione quickly, trying to cover up her mistake. “How are you?"
"Well, I confess I am surprised to see you out and about, Bellatrix."
"Really? Why?"
"Well,” Travers coughed, “I heard that the inhabitants of Malfoy Manor were confined to the house, after the . . . ah . . . escape."
"The Dark Lord forgives those who have served him most faithfully in the past,” said Hermione in a magnificent imitation of Bellatrix’s most contemptuous manner. “Perhaps your credit is not as good with him as mine is, Travers."
"How did it offend you?"
"It does not matter, it will not do so again,"
"Some of these wandless can be troublesome,” said Travers. “While they do nothing but beg I have no objection, but one of them actually asked me to plead her case at the Ministry last week. ‘I’m a witch, sir, I’m a witch, let me prove it to you!’” he said in a squeaky impersonation. “As if I was going to give her my wand — but whose wand,” said Travers curiously, “are you using at the moment, Bellatrix? I heard that your own was —"
"I have my wand here,” said Hermione coldly, holding up Bellatrix’s wand. “I don’t know what rumors you have been listening to, Travers, but you seem sadly misinformed."
"Who is your friend? I do not recognize him."
"This is Dragomir Despard,” said Hermione; they had decided that a fictional foreigner was the safest cover for Ron to assume. “He speaks very little English, but he is in sympathy with the Dark Lord’s aims. He has traveled here from Transylvania to see our new regime."
"Indeed? How do you do, Dragomir?"
"’Ow you?"
"So what brings you and your — ah — sympathetic friend to Diagon Alley this early?"
"I need to visit Gringotts,"
"Alas, I also,” said Travers. “Gold, filthy gold! We cannot live without it, yet I confess I deplore the necessity of consorting with our long-fingered friends."
"Shall we?"
"Ah, Probity Probes,” sighed Travers theatrically, “so crude — but effective!"
"Confundo"
"One moment, madam,"
"But you’ve just done that!"
"Yeah, you’ve just checked them, Marius."
"Like I said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it."
"Leprechaun,"
"Madam Lestrange!” said the goblin, evidently startled. “Dear me! How — how may I help you today?"
"I wish to enter my vault,"
"You have . . . identification?"
"Identification? I — I have never been asked for identification before!"
"They know!” whispered Griphook in Harry’s ear. “They must have been warned there might be an impostor!"
"Your wand will do, madam,"
"Act now, act now,” whispered Griphook in Harry’s ear, “the Imperius Curse!"
"Imperio!"
"Ah, you have had a new wand made, Madam Lestrange!"
"What?” said Hermione. “No, no, that’s mine —"
"A new wand?” said Travers, approaching the counter again; still the goblins all around were watching. “But how could you have done, which wandmaker did you use?"
"Imperio!"
"Oh yes, I see,” said Travers, looking down at Bellatrix’s wand, “yes, very handsome. And is it working well? I always think wands require a little breaking in, don’t you?"
"I shall need the Clankers,” he told the goblin, who dashed away and returned a moment later with a leather bag that seemed to be full of jangling metal, which he handed to his senior. “Good, good! So, if you will follow me, Madam Lestrange,” said the old goblin, hopping down off his stool and vanishing from sight, “I shall take you to your vault."
"Wait — Bogrod!"
"We have instructions,” he said with a bow to Hermione. “Forgive me, Madam, but there have been special orders regarding the vault of Lestrange."
"I am aware of the instructions. Madam Lestrange wishes to visit her vault . . . Very old family . . . old clients . . . This way, please . . ."
"We’re in trouble; they suspect,” said Harry as the door slammed behind them and he pulled off the Invisibility Cloak. Griphook jumped down from his shoulders; neither Travers nor Bogrod showed the slightest surprise at the sudden appearance of Harry Potter in their midst. “They’re Imperiused,” he added, in response to Hermione and Ron’s confused queries about Travers and Bogrod, who were both now standing there looking blank. “I don’t think I did it strongly enough, I don’t know. . . ."
"You need to mean them, Potter!"
"What do we do?” asked Ron. “Shall we get out now, while we can?"
"If we can,"
"We’ve got this far, I say we go on,"
"Good!” said Griphook. “So, we need Bogrod to control the cart; I no longer have the authority. But there will not be room for the wizard."
"Imperio!"
"What are you making him do?"
"Hide,"
"No!"
"C-Cushioning Charm,"
"The Thief’s Downfall!” said Griphook, clambering to his feet and looking back at the deluge onto the tracks, which, Harry knew now, had been more than water. “It washes away all enchantment, all magical concealment! They know there are impostors in Gringotts, they have set off defenses against us!"
"We need him,” said Griphook, “we cannot enter the vault without a Gringotts goblin. And we need the Clankers!"
"Imperio!"
"Harry, I think I can hear people coming!” said Hermione, and she pointed Bellatrix’s wand at the waterfall and cried, “Protego!"
"Good thinking,” said Harry. “Lead the way, Griphook!"
"How are we going to get out again?"
"Let’s worry about that when we have to,” said Harry. He was trying to listen: He thought he could hear something clanking and moving around nearby. “Griphook, how much farther?"
"Not far, Harry Potter, not far . . ."
"It is partially blind,” panted Griphook, “but even more savage for that. However, we have the means to control it. It has learned what to expect when the Clankers come. Give them to me."
"You know what to do,” Griphook told Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “It will expect pain when it hears the noise: It will retreat, and Bogrod must place his palm upon the door of the vault."
"Make him press his hand to the door!"
"Search, fast!"
"No matter, Bogrod will be able to release us!” said Griphook as Ron gave a shout of surprise. “Light your wands, can’t you? And hurry, we have very little time!"
"Lumos!"
"Harry, could this be — ? Aargh!"
"It burned me!"
"They have added Gemino and Flagrante Curses!” said Griphook. “Everything you touch will burn and multiply, but the copies are worthless — and if you continue to handle the treasure, you will eventually be crushed to death by the weight of expanding gold!"
"Okay, don’t touch anything!"
"Stand still, don’t move!"
"Just look around!” said Harry. “Remember, the cup’s small and gold, it’s got a badger engraved on it, two handles — otherwise see if you can spot Ravenclaw’s symbol anywhere, the eagle —"
"It’s there, it’s up there!"
"And how the hell are we going to get up there without touching anything?"
"Accio Cup!"
"No use, no use!"
"Then what do we do?” said Harry, glaring at the goblin. “If you want the sword, Griphook, then you’ll have to help us more than — wait! Can I touch stuff with the sword? Hermione, give it here!"
"If I can just poke the sword through a handle — but how am I going to get up there?"
"Hermione,” said Harry as the clanking grew louder, “I’ve got to get up there, we’ve got to get rid of it —"
"Levicorpus."
"Impervius!"
"Liberacorpus!"
"Get it!” Harry yelled, fighting the pain of the hot metal on his skin, as Griphook clambered onto his shoulders again, determined to avoid the swelling mass of red-hot objects. “Where’s the sword? It had the cup on it!"
"There!"
"Thieves! Thieves! Help! Thieves!"
"Stupefy!"
"Relashio!"
"This way!"
"Harry — Harry — what are you doing?"
"Get up, climb up, come on —"
"We’ll never get out, it’s too big!” Hermione screamed, but the dragon opened its mouth and belched flame again, blasting the tunnel, whose floors and ceiling cracked and crumbled. By sheer force the dragon clawed and fought its way through. Harry’s eyes were shut tight against the heat and dust: Deafened by the crashing of rock and the dragon’s roars, he could only cling to its back, expecting to be shaken off at any moment; then he heard Hermione yelling, “Defodio!"
"What do you reckon it’s looking for?"
"No idea,"
"Is it my imagination,” shouted Ron after a considerable stretch of silence, “or are we losing height?"
"I say we jump when it gets low enough!” Harry called back to the others. “Straight into the water before it realizes we’re here!"
"NOW!"
"Well, on the upside,” said Ron finally, who was sitting watching the skin on his hands regrow, “we got the Horcrux. On the downside —"
"— no sword,"
"No sword,” repeated Ron. “That double-crossing little scab . . ."
"At least we can’t wear it this time, that’d look a bit weird hanging round our necks,"
"What’ll happen to it, do you think?” she asked. “Will it be all right?"
"You sound like Hagrid,” said Ron. “It’s a dragon, Hermione, it can look after itself. It’s us we need to worry about."
"What do you mean?"
"Well, I don’t know how to break this to you,” said Ron, “but I think they might have noticed we broke into Gringotts."
"What are we going to do, though?” said Hermione finally, hiccuping herself back to seriousness. “He’ll know, won’t he? You-Know-Who will know we know about his Horcruxes!"
"Maybe they’ll be too scared to tell him?” said Ron hopefully. “Maybe they’ll cover up —"
"What did you say to me?"
"Say it again!” murmured Voldemort. “Say it again!"
"M-my Lord,” stammered the goblin, its black eyes wide with terror, “m-my Lord . . . we t-tried t-to st-stop them. . . . Im-impostors, my Lord . . . broke — broke into the — into the Lestranges’ v-vault. . . ."
"Impostors? What impostors? I thought Gringotts had ways of revealing impostors? Who were they?"
"It was . . . it was . . . the P-Potter b-boy and t-two accomplices. . . ."
"And they took?” he said, his voice rising, a terrible fear gripping him. “Tell me! What did they take?"
"A . . . a s-small golden c-cup, m-my Lord . . ."
"He knows.” His own voice sounded strange and low after Voldemort’s high screams. “He knows, and he’s going to check where the others are, and the last one,” he was already on his feet, “is at Hogwarts. I knew it. I knew it."
"What?"
"But what did you see? How do you know?"
"I saw him find out about the cup, I — I was in his head, he’s” — Harry remembered the killings — “he’s seriously angry, and scared too, he can’t understand how we knew, and now he’s going to check the others are safe, the ring first. He thinks the Hogwarts one is safest, because Snape’s there, because it’ll be so hard not to be seen getting in, I think he’ll check that one last, but he could still be there within hours —"
"Did you see where in Hogwarts it is?"
"No, he was concentrating on warning Snape, he didn’t think about exactly where it is —"
"Wait, wait!” cried Hermione as Ron caught up the Horcrux and Harry pulled out the Invisibility Cloak again. “We can’t just go, we haven’t got a plan, we need to —"
"We need to get going,” said Harry firmly. He had been hoping to sleep, looking forward to getting into the new tent, but that was impossible now. “Can you imagine what he’s going to do once he realizes the ring and the locket are gone? What if he moves the Hogwarts Horcrux, decides it isn’t safe enough?"
"But how are we going to get in?"
"We’ll go to Hogsmeade,” said Harry, “and try to work something out once we see what the protection around the school’s like. Get under the Cloak, Hermione, I want to stick together this time."
"But we don’t really fit —"
"It’ll be dark, no one’s going to notice our feet."
"Accio Cloak!"
"Not under your wrapper, then, Potter?” yelled the Death Eater who had tried the charm, and then to his fellows, “Spread out. He’s here."
"Let’s just leave!” Hermione whispered. “Disapparate now!"
"Great idea,"
"We know you’re here, Potter, and there’s no getting away! We’ll find you!"
"They were ready for us,” whispered Harry. “They set up that spell to tell them we’d come. I reckon they’ve done something to keep us here, trap us —"
"What about dementors?” called another Death Eater. “Let ’em have free rein, they’d find him quick enough!"
"The Dark Lord wants Potter dead by no hand but his —"
"— an’ dementors won’t kill him! The Dark Lord wants Potter’s life, not his soul. He’ll be easier to kill if he’s been Kissed first!"
"We’re going to have to try to Disapparate, Harry!"
"Expecto Patronum!"
"It’s him, down there, down there, I saw his Patronus, it was a stag!"
"Potter, in here, quick!"
"Upstairs, keep the Cloak on, keep quiet!"
"So what?” he was bellowing into one of the hooded faces. “So what? You send dementors down my street, I’ll send a Patronus back at ’em! I’m not having ’em near me, I’ve told you that, I’m not having it!"
"That wasn’t your Patronus!” said a Death Eater. “That was a stag, it was Potter’s!"
"Stag!” roared the barman, and he pulled out a wand. “Stag! You idiot — Expecto Patronum!"
"That’s not what I saw —"
"Curfew’s been broken, you heard the noise,” one of his companions told the barman. “Someone was out in the street against regulations —"
"If I want to put my cat out, I will, and be damned to your curfew!"
"You set off the Caterwauling Charm?"
"What if I did? Going to cart me off to Azkaban? Kill me for sticking my nose out my own front door? Do it, then, if you want to! But I hope for your sakes you haven’t pressed your little Dark Marks and summoned him. He’s not going to like being called here for me and my old cat, is he, now?"
"Don’t you worry about us,” said one of the Death Eaters, “worry about yourself, breaking curfew!"
"And where will you lot traffick potions and poisons when my pub’s closed down? What’ll happen to your little sidelines then?"
"Are you threatening — ?"
"I keep my mouth shut, it’s why you come here, isn’t it?"
"I still say I saw a stag Patronus!"
"Stag?” roared the barman. “It’s a goat, idiot!"
"All right, we made a mistake,” said the second Death Eater. “Break curfew again and we won’t be so lenient!"
"You bloody fools,” he said gruffly, looking from one to the other of them. “What were you thinking, coming here?"
"Thank you,” said Harry. “We can’t thank you enough. You saved our lives."
"It’s your eye I’ve been seeing in the mirror."
"You sent Dobby."
"Thought he’d be with you. Where’ve you left him?"
"He’s dead,” said Harry. “Bellatrix Lestrange killed him."
"I’m sorry to hear it. I liked that elf."
"You’re Aberforth,"
"How did you get this?"
"Bought it from Dung ’bout a year ago,” said Aberforth. “Albus told me what it was. Been trying to keep an eye out for you."
"The silver doe!” he said excitedly. “Was that you too?"
"What are you talking about?"
"Someone sent a doe Patronus to us!"
"Brains like that, you could be a Death Eater, son. Haven’t I just proved my Patronus is a goat?"
"Oh,” said Ron. “Yeah . . . well, I’m hungry!"
"I got food,"
"Right then,” said Aberforth when they had eaten their fill, and Harry and Ron sat slumped dozily in their chairs. “We need to think of the best way to get you out of here. Can’t be done by night, you heard what happens if anyone moves outdoors during darkness: Caterwauling Charm’s set off, they’ll be onto you like bowtruckles on doxy eggs. I don’t reckon I’ll be able to pass off a stag as a goat a second time. Wait for daybreak when curfew lifts, then you can put your Cloak back on and set out on foot. Get right out of Hogsmeade, up into the mountains, and you’ll be able to Disapparate there. Might see Hagrid. He’s been hiding in a cave up there with Grawp ever since they tried to arrest him."
"We’re not leaving,” said Harry. “We need to get into Hogwarts."
"Don’t be stupid, boy,"
"We’ve got to,"
"What you’ve got to do,” said Aberforth, leaning forward, “is to get as far from here as you can."
"You don’t understand. There isn’t much time. We’ve got to get into the castle. Dumbledore — I mean, your brother — wanted us —"
"My brother Albus wanted a lot of things,” said Aberforth, “and people had a habit of getting hurt while he was carrying out his grand plans. You get away from this school, Potter, and out of the country if you can. Forget my brother and his clever schemes. He’s gone where none of this can hurt him, and you don’t owe him anything."
"You don’t understand,"
"Oh, don’t I?” said Aberforth quietly. “You don’t think I understood my own brother? Think you knew Albus better than I did?"
"I didn’t mean that,” said Harry, whose brain felt sluggish with exhaustion and from the surfeit of food and wine. “It’s . . . he left me a job."
"Did he now?” said Aberforth. “Nice job, I hope? Pleasant? Easy? Sort of thing you’d expect an unqualified wizard kid to be able to do without overstretching themselves?"
"I-it’s not easy, no,” said Harry. “But I’ve got to —"
"‘Got to’? Why ‘got to’? He’s dead, isn’t he?” said Aberforth roughly. “Let it go, boy, before you follow him! Save yourself!"
"I can’t."
"Why not?"
"I —” Harry felt overwhelmed; he could not explain, so he took the offensive instead. “But you’re fighting too, you’re in the Order of the Phoenix —"
"I was,” said Aberforth. “The Order of the Phoenix is finished. You-Know-Who’s won, it’s over, and anyone who’s pretending different’s kidding themselves. It’ll never be safe for you here, Potter, he wants you too badly. So go abroad, go into hiding, save yourself. Best take these two with you.” He jerked a thumb at Ron and Hermione. “They’ll be in danger long as they live now everyone knows they’ve been working with you."
"I can’t leave,” said Harry. “I’ve got a job —"
"Give it to someone else!"
"I can’t. It’s got to be me, Dumbledore explained it all —"
"Oh, did he now? And did he tell you everything, was he honest with you?"
"Yes,"
"I knew my brother, Potter. He learned secrecy at our mother’s knee. Secrets and lies, that’s how we grew up, and Albus . . . he was a natural."
"Mr. Dumbledore?” said Hermione rather timidly. “Is that your sister? Ariana?"
"Yes,” said Aberforth tersely. “Been reading Rita Skeeter, have you, missy?"
"Elphias Doge mentioned her to us,"
"That old berk,” muttered Aberforth, taking another swig of mead. “Thought the sun shone out of my brother’s every orifice, he did. Well, so did plenty of people, you three included, by the looks of it."
"Professor Dumbledore cared about Harry, very much,"
"Did he now?” said Aberforth. “Funny thing, how many of the people my brother cared about very much ended up in a worse state than if he’d left ’em well alone."
"What do you mean?"
"Never you mind,"
"But that’s a really serious thing to say!” said Hermione. “Are you — are you talking about your sister?"
"When my sister was six years old, she was attacked, set upon, by three Muggle boys. They’d seen her doing magic, spying through the back garden hedge: She was a kid, she couldn’t control it, no witch or wizard can at that age. What they saw scared them, I expect. They forced their way through the hedge, and when she couldn’t show them the trick, they got a bit carried away trying to stop the little freak doing it."
"And my father went after the bastards that did it,"
"I was her favorite,” he said, and as he said it, a grubby schoolboy seemed to look out through Aberforth’s wrinkles and tangled beard. “Not Albus, he was always up in his bedroom when he was home, reading his books and counting his prizes, keeping up with his correspondence with ‘the most notable magical names of the day,’"
"Then, when she was fourteen . . . See, I wasn’t there,” said Aberforth. “If I’d been there, I could have calmed her down. She had one of her rages, and my mother wasn’t as young as she was, and . . . it was an accident. Ariana couldn’t control it. But my mother was killed."
"So that put paid to Albus’s trip round the world with little Doge. The pair of ’em came home for my mother’s funeral and then Doge went off on his own, and Albus settled down as head of the family. Ha!"
"I’d have looked after her, I told him so, I didn’t care about school, I’d have stayed home and done it. He told me I had to finish my education and he’d take over from my mother. Bit of a comedown for Mr. Brilliant, there’s no prizes for looking after your half-mad sister, stopping her blowing up the house every other day. But he did all right for a few weeks . . . till he came."
"But after a few weeks of it, I’d had enough, I had. It was nearly time for me to go back to Hogwarts, so I told ’em, both of ’em, face-to-face, like I am to you, now,” and Aberforth looked down at Harry, and it took little imagination to see him as a teenager, wiry and angry, confronting his elder brother. “I told him, you’d better give it up now. You can’t move her, she’s in no fit state, you can’t take her with you, wherever it is you’re planning to go, when you’re making your clever speeches, trying to whip yourselves up a following. He didn’t like that,"
"And there was an argument . . . and I pulled out my wand, and he pulled out his, and I had the Cruciatus Curse used on me by my brother’s best friend — and Albus was trying to stop him, and then all three of us were dueling, and the flashing lights and the bangs set her off, she couldn’t stand it —"
"— and I think she wanted to help, but she didn’t really know what she was doing, and I don’t know which of us did it, it could have been any of us — and she was dead."
"I’m so . . . I’m so sorry,"
"Gone,” croaked Aberforth. “Gone forever."
"’Course, Grindelwald scarpered. He had a bit of a track record already, back in his own country, and he didn’t want Ariana set to his account too. And Albus was free, wasn’t he? Free of the burden of his sister, free to become the greatest wizard of the —"
"He was never free,"
"I beg your pardon?"
"Never,” said Harry. “The night that your brother died, he drank a potion that drove him out of his mind. He started screaming, pleading with someone who wasn’t there. ‘Don’t hurt them, please . . . hurt me instead.’"
"He thought he was back there with you and Grindelwald, I know he did,” said Harry, remembering Dumbledore whimpering, pleading. “He thought he was watching Grindelwald hurting you and Ariana. . . . It was torture to him, if you’d seen him then, you wouldn’t say he was free."
"How can you be sure, Potter, that my brother wasn’t more interested in the greater good than in you? How can you be sure you aren’t dispensable, just like my little sister?"
"I don’t believe it. Dumbledore loved Harry,"
"Why didn’t he tell him to hide, then?” shot back Aberforth. “Why didn’t he say to him, ‘Take care of yourself, here’s how to survive’?"
"Because,” said Harry before Hermione could answer, “sometimes you’ve got to think about more than your own safety! Sometimes you’ve got to think about the greater good! This is war!"
"You’re seventeen, boy!"
"I’m of age, and I’m going to keep fighting even if you’ve given up!"
"Who says I’ve given up?"
"‘The Order of the Phoenix is finished,’” Harry repeated. “‘You-Know-Who’s won, it’s over, and anyone who’s pretending different’s kidding themselves.’"
"I don’t say I like it, but it’s the truth!"
"No, it isn’t,” said Harry. “Your brother knew how to finish You-Know-Who and he passed the knowledge on to me. I’m going to keep going until I succeed — or I die. Don’t think I don’t know how this might end. I’ve known it for years."
"We need to get into Hogwarts,” said Harry again. “If you can’t help us, we’ll wait till daybreak, leave you in peace, and try to find a way in ourselves. If you can help us — well, now would be a great time to mention it."
"You know what to do,"
"Er — what — ?"
"There’s only one way in now,” said Aberforth. “You must know they’ve got all the old secret passageways covered at both ends, dementors all around the boundary walls, regular patrols inside the school from what my sources tell me. The place has never been so heavily guarded. How you expect to do anything once you get inside it, with Snape in charge and the Carrows as his deputies . . . well, that’s your lookout, isn’t it? You say you’re prepared to die."
"But what . . . ?"
"I knew you’d come! I knew it, Harry!"
"I knew you’d come! Kept telling Seamus it was a matter of time!"
"Neville, what’s happened to you?"
"What? This?” Neville dismissed his injuries with a shake of the head. “This is nothing. Seamus is worse. You’ll see. Shall we get going then? Oh,” he turned to Aberforth, “Ab, there might be a couple more people on the way."
"Couple more?” repeated Aberforth ominously. “What d’you mean, a couple more, Longbottom? There’s a curfew and a Caterwauling Charm on the whole village!"
"I know, that’s why they’ll be Apparating directly into the bar,” said Neville. “Just send them down the passage when they get here, will you? Thanks a lot."
"I don’t know how to thank you. You’ve saved our lives twice."
"Look after ’em, then,” said Aberforth gruffly. “I might not be able to save ’em a third time."
"How long’s this been here?” Ron asked as they set off. “It isn’t on the Marauder’s Map, is it, Harry? I thought there were only seven passages in and out of school?"
"They sealed off all of those before the start of the year,” said Neville. “There’s no chance of getting through any of them now, not with curses over the entrances and Death Eaters and dementors waiting at the exits.” He started walking backward, beaming, drinking them in. “Never mind that stuff . . . Is it true? Did you break into Gringotts? Did you escape on a dragon? It’s everywhere, everyone’s talking about it, Terry Boot got beaten up by Carrow for yelling about it in the Great Hall at dinner!"
"Yeah, it’s true,"
"What did you do with the dragon?"
"Released it into the wild,” said Ron. “Hermione was all for keeping it as a pet —"
"Don’t exaggerate, Ron —"
"But what have you been doing? People have been saying you’ve just been on the run, Harry, but I don’t think so. I think you’ve been up to something."
"You’re right,” said Harry, “but tell us about Hogwarts, Neville, we haven’t heard anything."
"It’s been . . . well, it’s not really like Hogwarts anymore,” said Neville, the smile fading from his face as he spoke. “Do you know about the Carrows?"
"Those two Death Eaters who teach here?"
"They do more than teach,” said Neville. “They’re in charge of all discipline. They like punishment, the Carrows."
"Like Umbridge?"
"Amycus, the bloke, he teaches what used to be Defense Against the Dark Arts, except now it’s just the Dark Arts. We’re supposed to practice the Cruciatus Curse on people who’ve earned detentions —"
"What?"
"Yeah,” said Neville. “That’s how I got this one,"
"Alecto, Amycus’s sister, teaches Muggle Studies, which is compulsory for everyone. We’ve all got to listen to her explain how Muggles are like animals, stupid and dirty, and how they drove wizards into hiding by being vicious toward them, and how the natural order is being reestablished. I got this one,” he indicated another slash to his face, “for asking her how much Muggle blood she and her brother have got."
"Blimey, Neville,” said Ron, “there’s a time and a place for getting a smart mouth."
"You didn’t hear her,” said Neville. “You wouldn’t have stood it either. The thing is, it helps when people stand up to them, it gives everyone hope. I used to notice that when you did it, Harry."
"But they’ve used you as a knife sharpener,"
"Doesn’t matter. They don’t want to spill too much pure blood, so they’ll torture us a bit if we’re mouthy but they won’t actually kill us."
"The only people in real danger are the ones whose friends and relatives on the outside are giving trouble. They get taken hostage. Old Xeno Lovegood was getting a bit too outspoken in The Quibbler, so they dragged Luna off the train on the way back for Christmas."
"Neville, she’s all right, we’ve seen her —"
"Yeah, I know, she managed to get a message to me."
"These have been great,” said Neville, beaming at Hermione. “The Carrows never rumbled how we were communicating, it drove them mad. We used to sneak out at night and put graffiti on the walls: Dumbledore’s Army, Still Recruiting, stuff like that. Snape hated it."
"You used to?"
"Well, it got more difficult as time went on,” said Neville. “We lost Luna at Christmas, and Ginny never came back after Easter, and the three of us were sort of the leaders. The Carrows seemed to know I was behind a lot of it, so they started coming down on me hard, and then Michael Corner went and got caught releasing a first-year they’d chained up, and they tortured him pretty badly. That scared people off."
"No kidding,"
"Yeah, well, I couldn’t ask people to go through what Michael did, so we dropped those kinds of stunts. But we were still fighting, doing underground stuff, right up until a couple of weeks ago. That’s when they decided there was only one way to stop me, I suppose, and they went for Gran."
"They what?"
"Yeah,” said Neville, panting a little now, because the passage was climbing so steeply, “well, you can see their thinking. It had worked really well, kidnapping kids to force their relatives to behave, I s’pose it was only a matter of time before they did it the other way around. Thing was,” he faced them, and Harry was astonished to see that he was grinning, “they bit off a bit more than they could chew with Gran. Little old witch living alone, they probably thought they didn’t need to send anyone particularly powerful. Anyway,” Neville laughed, “Dawlish is still in St. Mungo’s and Gran’s on the run. She sent me a letter,” he clapped a hand to the breast pocket of his robes, “telling me she was proud of me, that I’m my parents’ son, and to keep it up."
"Cool,"
"Yeah,” said Neville happily. “Only thing was, once they realized they had no hold over me, they decided Hogwarts could do without me after all. I don’t know whether they were planning to kill me or send me to Azkaban; either way, I knew it was time to disappear."
"But,” said Ron, looking thoroughly confused, “aren’t — aren’t we heading straight back into Hogwarts?"
"’Course,” said Neville. “You’ll see. We’re here."
"Look who it is! Didn’t I tell you?"
"HARRY!” “It’s Potter, it’s POTTER!” “Ron!” “Hermione!"
"Okay, okay, calm down!"
"Where are we?"
"Room of Requirement, of course!” said Neville. “Surpassed itself, hasn’t it? The Carrows were chasing me, and I knew I had just one chance for a hideout: I managed to get through the door and this is what I found! Well, it wasn’t exactly like this when I arrived, it was a load smaller, there was only one hammock and just Gryffindor hangings. But it’s expanded as more and more of the D.A. have arrived."
"And the Carrows can’t get in?"
"No,” said Seamus Finnigan, whom Harry had not recognized until he spoke: Seamus’s face was bruised and puffy. “It’s a proper hideout, as long as one of us stays in here, they can’t get at us, the door won’t open. It’s all down to Neville. He really gets this room. You’ve got to ask it for exactly what you need — like, ‘I don’t want any Carrow supporters to be able to get in’ — and it’ll do it for you! You’ve just got to make sure you close the loopholes! Neville’s the man!"
"It’s quite straightforward, really,” said Neville modestly. “I’d been in here about a day and a half, and getting really hungry, and wishing I could get something to eat, and that’s when the passage to the Hog’s Head opened up. I went through it and met Aberforth. He’s been providing us with food, because for some reason, that’s the one thing the room doesn’t really do."
"Yeah, well, food’s one of the five exceptions to Gamp’s Law of Elemental Transfiguration,"
"So we’ve been hiding out here for nearly two weeks,” said Seamus, “and it just makes more hammocks every time we need them, and it even sprouted a pretty good bathroom once girls started turning up —"
"— and thought they’d quite like to wash, yes,"
"Tell us what you’ve been up to, though,” said Ernie. “There’ve been so many rumors, we’ve been trying to keep up with you on Potterwatch.” He pointed at the wireless. “You didn’t break into Gringotts?"
"They did!” said Neville. “And the dragon’s true too!"
"What were you after?"
"Are you all right, Harry?” Neville was saying. “Want to sit down? I expect you’re tired, aren’t — ?"
"No,"
"We need to get going,"
"What are we going to do, then, Harry?” asked Seamus. “What’s the plan?"
"Plan?” repeated Harry. He was exercising all his willpower to prevent himself succumbing again to Voldemort’s rage: His scar was still burning. “Well, there’s something we — Ron, Hermione, and I — need to do, and then we’ll get out of here."
"What d’you mean, ‘get out of here’?"
"We haven’t come back to stay,” said Harry, rubbing his scar, trying to soothe the pain. “There’s something important we need to do —"
"What is it?"
"I — I can’t tell you."
"Why can’t you tell us? It’s something to do with fighting You-Know-Who, right?"
"Well, yeah —"
"Then we’ll help you."
"You don’t understand.” Harry seemed to have said that a lot in the last few hours. “We — we can’t tell you. We’ve got to do it — alone."
"Why?"
"Because . . .” In his desperation to start looking for the missing Horcrux, or at least to have a private discussion with Ron and Hermione about where they might commence their search, Harry found it difficult to gather his thoughts. His scar was still searing. “Dumbledore left the three of us a job,” he said carefully, “and we weren’t supposed to tell — I mean, he wanted us to do it, just the three of us."
"We’re his army,” said Neville. “Dumbledore’s Army. We were all in it together, we’ve been keeping it going while you three have been off on your own —"
"It hasn’t exactly been a picnic, mate,"
"I never said it had, but I don’t see why you can’t trust us. Everyone in this room’s been fighting and they’ve been driven in here because the Carrows were hunting them down. Everyone in here’s proven they’re loyal to Dumbledore — loyal to you."
"Look,"
"We got your message, Neville! Hello you three, I thought you must be here!"
"Hi, everyone!” said Luna happily. “Oh, it’s great to be back!"
"Luna,” said Harry distractedly, “what are you doing here? How did you — ?"
"I sent for her,” said Neville, holding up the fake Galleon. “I promised her and Ginny that if you turned up I’d let them know. We all thought that if you came back, it would mean revolution. That we were going to overthrow Snape and the Carrows."
"Of course that’s what it means,” said Luna brightly. “Isn’t it, Harry? We’re going to fight them out of Hogwarts?"
"Listen,” said Harry with a rising sense of panic, “I’m sorry, but that’s not what we came back for. There’s something we’ve got to do, and then —"
"You’re going to leave us in this mess?"
"No!” said Ron. “What we’re doing will benefit everyone in the end, it’s all about trying to get rid of You-Know-Who —"
"Then let us help!” said Neville angrily. “We want to be a part of it!"
"Aberforth’s getting a bit annoyed,” said Fred, raising his hand in answer to several cries of greeting. “He wants a kip, and his bar’s turned into a railway station."
"I got the message,"
"So what’s the plan, Harry?"
"There isn’t one,"
"Just going to make it up as we go along, are we? My favorite kind,"
"You’ve got to stop this!” Harry told Neville. “What did you call them all back for? This is insane —"
"We’re fighting, aren’t we?” said Dean, taking out his fake Galleon. “The message said Harry was back, and we were going to fight! I’ll have to get a wand, though —"
"You haven’t got a wand — ?"
"Why can’t they help?"
"What?"
"They can help.” He dropped his voice and said, so that none of them could hear but Hermione, who stood between them, “We don’t know where it is. We’ve got to find it fast. We don’t have to tell them it’s a Horcrux."
"I think Ron’s right. We don’t even know what we’re looking for, we need them.” And when Harry looked unconvinced, “You don’t have to do everything alone, Harry."
"All right,” he said quietly to the other two. “Okay,"
"There’s something we need to find,” Harry said. “Something — something that’ll help us overthrow You-Know-Who. It’s here at Hogwarts, but we don’t know where. It might have belonged to Ravenclaw. Has anyone heard of an object like that? Has anyone ever come across something with her eagle on it, for instance?"
"Well, there’s her lost diadem. I told you about it, remember, Harry? The lost diadem of Ravenclaw? Daddy’s trying to duplicate it."
"Yeah, but the lost diadem,” said Michael Corner, rolling his eyes, “is lost, Luna. That’s sort of the point."
"When was it lost?"
"Centuries ago, they say,” said Cho, and Harry’s heart sank. “Professor Flitwick says the diadem vanished with Ravenclaw herself. People have looked, but,” she appealed to her fellow Ravenclaws, “nobody’s ever found a trace of it, have they?"
"Sorry, but what is a diadem?"
"It’s a kind of crown,” said Terry Boot. “Ravenclaw’s was supposed to have magical properties, enhance the wisdom of the wearer."
"Yes, Daddy’s Wrackspurt siphons —"
"And none of you have ever seen anything that looks like it?"
"If you’d like to see what the diadem’s supposed to look like, I could take you up to our common room and show you, Harry? Ravenclaw’s wearing it in her statue."
"He’s on the move,” he said quietly to Ron and Hermione. He glanced at Cho and then back at them. “Listen, I know it’s not much of a lead, but I’m going to go and look at this statue, at least find out what the diadem looks like. Wait for me here and keep, you know — the other one — safe."
"No, Luna will take Harry, won’t you, Luna?"
"Oooh, yes, I’d like to,"
"How do we get out?"
"Over here."
"It comes out somewhere different every day, so they’ve never been able to find it,” he said. “Only trouble is, we never know exactly where we’re going to end up when we go out. Be careful, Harry, they’re always patrolling the corridors at night."
"No problem,” said Harry. “See you in a bit."
"Get under here,"
"We’re up on the fifth floor,” he whispered, watching Filch moving away from them, a corridor ahead. “Come on, this way."
"This way, Harry,"
"Which came first, the phoenix or the flame?"
"Hmm . . . What do you think, Harry?"
"What? Isn’t there just a password?"
"Oh no, you’ve got to answer a question,"
"What if you get it wrong?"
"Well, you have to wait for somebody who gets it right,” said Luna. “That way you learn, you see?"
"Yeah . . . Trouble is, we can’t really afford to wait for anyone else, Luna."
"No, I see what you mean,” said Luna seriously. “Well then, I think the answer is that a circle has no beginning."
"Well reasoned,"
"‘Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure.’"
"Which makes you pretty skint, witless,"
"I’ve never Stunned anyone except in our D.A. lessons,” said Luna, sounding mildly interested. “That was noisier than I thought it would be."
"Luna, where are you? I need to get under the Cloak!"
"I think she might be dead!"
"Oh, look,” whispered Luna happily, as the Ravenclaws crowded in around Alecto. “They’re pleased!"
"Yeah . . . great . . ."
"Where do Vanished objects go?"
"I dunno, do I? Shut it!” snarled an uncouth voice that Harry knew was that of the Carrow brother, Amycus. “Alecto? Alecto? Are you there? Have you got him? Open the door!"
"ALECTO! If he comes, and we haven’t got Potter — d’you want to go the same way as the Malfoys? ANSWER ME!"
"May I ask what you are doing, Professor Carrow?"
"Trying — to get — through this damned — door!” shouted Amycus. “Go and get Flitwick! Get him to open it, now!"
"But isn’t your sister in there?” asked Professor McGonagall. “Didn’t Professor Flitwick let her in earlier this evening, at your urgent request? Perhaps she could open the door for you? Then you needn’t wake up half the castle."
"She ain’t answering, you old besom! You open it! Garn! Do it, now!"
"Certainly, if you wish it,"
"Where do Vanished objects go?"
"Into nonbeing, which is to say, everything,"
"Nicely phrased,"
"What’ve they done, the little whelps?” he screamed. “I’ll Cruciate the lot of ’em till they tell me who did it — and what’s the Dark Lord going to say?” he shrieked, standing over his sister and smacking himself on the forehead with his fist. “We haven’t got him, and they’ve gorn and killed her!"
"She’s only Stunned,” said Professor McGonagall impatiently, who had stooped down to examine Alecto. “She’ll be perfectly all right."
"No she bludgering well won’t!” bellowed Amycus. “Not after the Dark Lord gets hold of her! She’s gorn and sent for him, I felt me Mark burn, and he thinks we’ve got Potter!"
"‘Got Potter’?” said Professor McGonagall sharply. “What do you mean, ‘got Potter’?"
"He told us Potter might try and get inside Ravenclaw Tower, and to send for him if we caught him!"
"Why would Harry Potter try to get inside Ravenclaw Tower? Potter belongs in my House!"
"We was told he might come in here!” said Carrow. “I dunno why, do I?"
"We can push it off on the kids,” said Amycus, his piglike face suddenly crafty. “Yeah, that’s what we’ll do. We’ll say Alecto was ambushed by the kids, them kids up there” — he looked up at the starry ceiling toward the dormitories — “and we’ll say they forced her to press her Mark, and that’s why he got a false alarm. . . . He can punish them. Couple of kids more or less, what’s the difference?"
"Only the difference between truth and lies, courage and cowardice,” said Professor McGonagall, who had turned pale, “a difference, in short, which you and your sister seem unable to appreciate. But let me make one thing very clear. You are not going to pass off your many ineptitudes on the students of Hogwarts. I shall not permit it."
"Excuse me?"
"It’s not a case of what you’ll permit, Minerva McGonagall. Your time’s over. It’s us what’s in charge here now, and you’ll back me up or you’ll pay the price."
"You shouldn’t have done that."
"Crucio!"
"I see what Bellatrix meant,” said Harry, the blood thundering through his brain, “you need to really mean it."
"Potter!” whispered Professor McGonagall, clutching her heart. “Potter — you’re here! What — ? How — ?” She struggled to pull herself together. “Potter, that was foolish!"
"He spat at you,"
"Potter, I — that was very — very gallant of you — but don’t you realize — ?"
"Yeah, I do,” Harry assured her. Somehow her panic steadied him. “Professor McGonagall, Voldemort’s on the way."
"Oh, are we allowed to say the name now?"
"I don’t think it makes any difference what we call him,” Harry told Luna. “He already knows where I am."
"You must flee,” whispered Professor McGonagall. “Now, Potter, as quickly as you can!"
"I can’t,” said Harry. “There’s something I need to do. Professor, do you know where the diadem of Ravenclaw is?"
"The d-diadem of Ravenclaw? Of course not — hasn’t it been lost for centuries?” She sat up a little straighter. “Potter, it was madness, utter madness, for you to enter this castle —"
"I had to,” said Harry. “Professor, there’s something hidden here that I’m supposed to find, and it could be the diadem — if I could just speak to Professor Flitwick —"
"Imperio."
"Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, turning to face him again with superb indifference to the Carrows’ predicament, “if He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named does indeed know that you are here —"
"Potter, are you all right?"
"Time’s running out, Voldemort’s getting nearer. Professor, I’m acting on Dumbledore’s orders, I must find what he wanted me to find! But we’ve got to get the students out while I’m searching the castle — it’s me Voldemort wants, but he won’t care about killing a few more or less, not now —"
"You’re acting on Dumbledore’s orders?"
"We shall secure the school against He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named while you search for this — this object."
"Is that possible?"
"I think so,” said Professor McGonagall dryly, “we teachers are rather good at magic, you know. I am sure we will be able to hold him off for a while if we all put our best efforts into it. Of course, something will have to be done about Professor Snape —"
"Let me —"
"— and if Hogwarts is about to enter a state of siege, with the Dark Lord at the gates, it would indeed be advisable to take as many innocent people out of the way as possible. With the Floo Network under observation, and Apparition impossible within the grounds —"
"There’s a way,"
"Potter, we’re talking about hundreds of students —"
"I know, Professor, but if Voldemort and the Death Eaters are concentrating on the school boundaries they won’t be interested in anyone who’s Disapparating out of the Hog’s Head."
"There’s something in that,” she agreed. She pointed her wand at the Carrows, and a silver net fell upon their bound bodies, tied itself around them, and hoisted them into the air, where they dangled beneath the blue-and-gold ceiling like two large, ugly sea creatures. “Come. We must alert the other Heads of House. You’d better put that Cloak back on."
"Who’s there?"
"It is I,"
"Where are the Carrows?"
"Wherever you told them to be, I expect, Severus,"
"I was under the impression,” said Snape, “that Alecto had apprehended an intruder."
"Really?” said Professor McGonagall. “And what gave you that impression?"
"Oh, but naturally,” said Professor McGonagall. “You Death Eaters have your own private means of communication, I forgot."
"I did not know that it was your night to patrol the corridors, Minerva."
"You have some objection?"
"I wonder what could have brought you out of your bed at this late hour?"
"I thought I heard a disturbance,"
"Really? But all seems calm."
"Have you seen Harry Potter, Minerva? Because if you have, I must insist —"
"Minerva!"
"No!” squealed Flitwick, raising his wand. “You’ll do no more murder at Hogwarts!"
"Coward! COWARD!"
"What’s happened, what’s happened?"
"He jumped,"
"You mean he’s dead?"
"No, he’s not dead,” said McGonagall bitterly. “Unlike Dumbledore, he was still carrying a wand . . . and he seems to have learned a few tricks from his master."
"Harry!” he panted, massaging his immense chest beneath his emerald-green silk pajamas. “My dear boy . . . what a surprise . . . Minerva, do please explain. . . . Severus . . . what . . . ?"
"Our headmaster is taking a short break,"
"Professor!"
"Professor, we’ve got to barricade the school, he’s coming now!"
"Very well. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is coming,” she told the other teachers. Sprout and Flitwick gasped; Slughorn let out a low groan. “Potter has work to do in the castle on Dumbledore’s orders. We need to put in place every protection of which we are capable while Potter does what he needs to do."
"You realize, of course, that nothing we do will be able to keep out You-Know-Who indefinitely?"
"But we can hold him up,"
"Thank you, Pomona,” said Professor McGonagall, and between the two witches there passed a look of grim understanding. “I suggest we establish basic protection around the place, then gather our students and meet in the Great Hall. Most must be evacuated, though if any of those who are over age wish to stay and fight, I think they ought to be given the chance."
"Agreed,” said Professor Sprout, already hurrying toward the door. “I shall meet you in the Great Hall in twenty minutes with my House."
"Tentacula. Devil’s Snare. And Snargaluff pods . . . yes, I’d like to see the Death Eaters fighting those."
"I can act from here,"
"Professor,” Harry said, approaching the little Charms master, “Professor, I’m sorry to interrupt, but this is important. Have you got any idea where the diadem of Ravenclaw is?"
"— Protego Horribilis — the diadem of Ravenclaw?” squeaked Flitwick. “A little extra wisdom never goes amiss, Potter, but I hardly think it would be much use in this situation!"
"I only meant — do you know where it is? Have you ever seen it?"
"Seen it? Nobody has seen it in living memory! Long since lost, boy!"
"We shall meet you and your Ravenclaws in the Great Hall, Filius!"
"My word,” he puffed, pale and sweaty, his walrus mustache aquiver. “What a to-do! I’m not at all sure whether this is wise, Minerva. He is bound to find a way in, you know, and anyone who has tried to delay him will be in most grievous peril —"
"I shall expect you and the Slytherins in the Great Hall in twenty minutes, also,” said Professor McGonagall. “If you wish to leave with your students, we shall not stop you. But if any of you attempt to sabotage our resistance or take up arms against us within this castle, then, Horace, we duel to kill."
"Minerva!"
"The time has come for Slytherin House to decide upon its loyalties,” interrupted Professor McGonagall. “Go and wake your students, Horace."
"Piertotum — oh, for heaven’s sake, Filch, not now —"
"Students out of bed! Students in the corridors!"
"They’re supposed to be, you blithering idiot!” shouted McGonagall. “Now go and do something constructive! Find Peeves!"
"P-Peeves?"
"Yes, Peeves, you fool, Peeves! Haven’t you been complaining about him for a quarter of a century? Go and fetch him, at once!"
"And now — Piertotum Locomotor!"
"Hogwarts is threatened!” shouted Professor McGonagall. “Man the boundaries, protect us, do your duty to our school!"
"Now, Potter,” said McGonagall, “you and Miss Lovegood had better return to your friends and bring them to the Great Hall — I shall rouse the other Gryffindors."
"That was Potter!"
"Harry Potter!"
"It was him, I swear, I just saw him!"
"Wh — ?"
"Harry, what’s happening?"
"Voldemort’s on his way, they’re barricading the school — Snape’s run for it — What are you doing here? How did you know?"
"We sent messages to the rest of Dumbledore’s Army,” Fred explained. “You couldn’t expect everyone to miss the fun, Harry, and the D.A. let the Order of the Phoenix know, and it all kind of snowballed."
"What first, Harry?” called George. “What’s going on?"
"They’re evacuating the younger kids and everyone’s meeting in the Great Hall to get organized,” Harry said. “We’re fighting."
"Come on, Luna,"
"You’re underage!” Mrs. Weasley shouted at her daughter as Harry approached. “I won’t permit it! The boys, yes, but you, you’ve got to go home!"
"I won’t!"
"I’m in Dumbledore’s Army —"
"A teenagers’ gang!"
"A teenagers’ gang that’s about to take him on, which no one else has dared to do!"
"She’s sixteen!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “She’s not old enough! What you two were thinking, bringing her with you —"
"Mum’s right, Ginny,” said Bill gently. “You can’t do this. Everyone underage will have to leave, it’s only right."
"I can’t go home!” Ginny shouted, angry tears sparkling in her eyes. “My whole family’s here, I can’t stand waiting there alone and not knowing and —"
"Fine,” she said, staring at the entrance to the tunnel back to the Hog’s Head. “I’ll say good-bye now, then, and —"
"Am I too late? Has it started? I only just found out, so I — I —"
"So — ’ow eez leetle Teddy?"
"I — oh yes — he’s fine!” Lupin said loudly. “Yes, Tonks is with him — at her mother’s —"
"Here, I’ve got a picture!"
"I was a fool!” Percy roared, so loudly that Lupin nearly dropped his photograph. “I was an idiot, I was a pompous prat, I was a — a —"
"Ministry-loving, family-disowning, power-hungry moron,"
"Yes, I was!"
"Well, you can’t say fairer than that,"
"I’m sorry, Dad,"
"What made you see sense, Perce?"
"It’s been coming on for a while,” said Percy, mopping his eyes under his glasses with a corner of his traveling cloak. “But I had to find a way out and it’s not so easy at the Ministry, they’re imprisoning traitors all the time. I managed to make contact with Aberforth and he tipped me off ten minutes ago that Hogwarts was going to make a fight of it, so here I am."
"Well, we do look to our prefects to take a lead at times such as these,” said George in a good imitation of Percy’s most pompous manner. “Now let’s get upstairs and fight, or all the good Death Eaters’ll be taken."
"So, you’re my sister-in-law now?"
"Ginny!"
"Molly, how about this,” said Lupin. “Why doesn’t Ginny stay here, then at least she’ll be on the scene and know what’s going on, but she won’t be in the middle of the fighting?"
"I —"
"That’s a good idea,” said Mr. Weasley firmly. “Ginny, you stay in this room, you hear me?"
"Where’s Ron?” asked Harry. “Where’s Hermione?"
"They must have gone up to the Great Hall already,"
"I didn’t see them pass me,"
"They said something about a bathroom,” said Ginny, “not long after you left."
"A bathroom?"
"You’re sure they said bath — ?"
". . . evacuation will be overseen by Mr. Filch and Madam Pomfrey. Prefects, when I give the word, you will organize your House and take your charges, in an orderly fashion, to the evacuation point."
"And what if we want to stay and fight?"
"If you are of age, you may stay,"
"What about our things?” called a girl at the Ravenclaw table. “Our trunks, our owls?"
"We have no time to collect possessions,” said Professor McGonagall. “The important thing is to get you out of here safely."
"Where’s Professor Snape?"
"He has, to use the common phrase, done a bunk,"
"We have already placed protection around the castle,” Professor McGonagall was saying, “but it is unlikely to hold for very long unless we reinforce it. I must ask you, therefore, to move quickly and calmly, and do as your prefects —"
"I know that you are preparing to fight.” There were screams amongst the students, some of whom clutched each other, looking around in terror for the source of the sound. “Your efforts are futile. You cannot fight me. I do not want to kill you. I have great respect for the teachers of Hogwarts. I do not want to spill magical blood."
"Give me Harry Potter,"
"You have until midnight."
"But he’s there! Potter’s there! Someone grab him!"
"Thank you, Miss Parkinson,” said Professor McGonagall in a clipped voice. “You will leave the Hall first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House could follow."
"Ravenclaws, follow on!"
"Absolutely not, Creevey, go! And you, Peakes!"
"Where are Ron and Hermione?"
"Haven’t you found — ?"
"We’ve only got half an hour until midnight, so we need to act fast! A battle plan has been agreed between the teachers of Hogwarts and the Order of the Phoenix. Professors Flitwick, Sprout, and McGonagall are going to take groups of fighters up to the three highest towers — Ravenclaw, Astronomy, and Gryffindor — where they’ll have a good overview, excellent positions from which to work spells. Meanwhile Remus” — he indicated Lupin — “Arthur” — he pointed toward Mr. Weasley, sitting at the Gryffindor table — “and I will take groups into the grounds. We’ll need somebody to organize defense of the entrances of the passageways into the school —"
"Sounds like a job for us,"
"All right, leaders up here and we’ll divide up the troops!"
"Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, hurrying up to him, as students flooded the platform, jostling for position, receiving instructions, “Aren’t you supposed to be looking for something?"
"What? Oh,” said Harry, “oh yeah!"
"Then go, Potter, go!"
"Right — yeah —"
"Nick! NICK! I need to talk to you!"
"Harry! My dear boy!"
"Nick, you’ve got to help me. Who’s the ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?"
"The Gray Lady, of course; but if it is ghostly services you require — ?"
"It’s got to be her — d’you know where she is?"
"Let’s see. . . ."
"That’s her over there, Harry, the young woman with the long hair."
"Hey — wait — come back!"
"You’re the Gray Lady?"
"The ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?"
"That is correct."
"Please: I need some help. I need to know anything you can tell me about the lost diadem."
"I am afraid,” she said, turning to leave, “that I cannot help you."
"WAIT!"
"This is urgent,” he said fiercely. “If that diadem’s at Hogwarts, I’ve got to find it, fast."
"You are hardly the first student to covet the diadem,” she said disdainfully. “Generations of students have badgered me —"
"This isn’t about trying to get better marks!” Harry shouted at her. “It’s about Voldemort — defeating Voldemort — or aren’t you interested in that?"
"Of course I — how dare you suggest — ?"
"Well, help me, then!"
"It — it is not a question of —” she stammered. “My mother’s diadem —"
"Your mother’s?"
"When I lived,” she said stiffly, “I was Helena Ravenclaw."
"You’re her daughter? But then, you must know what happened to it!"
"While the diadem bestows wisdom,” she said with an obvious effort to pull herself together, “I doubt that it would greatly increase your chances of defeating the wizard who calls himself Lord —"
"Haven’t I just told you, I’m not interested in wearing it!” Harry said fiercely. “There’s no time to explain — but if you care about Hogwarts, if you want to see Voldemort finished, you’ve got to tell me anything you know about the diadem!"
"I stole the diadem from my mother."
"You — you did what?"
"I stole the diadem,” repeated Helena Ravenclaw in a whisper. “I sought to make myself cleverer, more important than my mother. I ran away with it."
"Then my mother fell ill — fatally ill. In spite of my perfidy, she was desperate to see me one more time. She sent a man who had long loved me, though I spurned his advances, to find me. She knew that he would not rest until he had done so."
"He tracked me to the forest where I was hiding. When I refused to return with him, he became violent. The Baron was always a hot-tempered man. Furious at my refusal, jealous of my freedom, he stabbed me."
"The Baron? You mean — ?"
"The Bloody Baron, yes,” said the Gray Lady, and she lifted aside the cloak she wore to reveal a single dark wound in her white chest. “When he saw what he had done, he was overcome with remorse. He took the weapon that had claimed my life, and used it to kill himself. All these centuries later, he wears his chains as an act of penitence . . . as he should,"
"And . . . and the diadem?"
"It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the Baron blundering through the forest toward me. Concealed inside a hollow tree."
"A hollow tree?” repeated Harry. “What tree? Where was this?"
"A forest in Albania. A lonely place I thought was far beyond my mother’s reach."
"Albania,” repeated Harry. Sense was emerging miraculously from confusion, and now he understood why she was telling him what she had denied Dumbledore and Flitwick. “You’ve already told someone this story, haven’t you? Another student?"
"I had . . . no idea. . . . He was . . . flattering. He seemed to . . . to understand . . . to sympathize. . . ."
"Well, you weren’t the first person Riddle wormed things out of,” Harry muttered. “He could be charming when he wanted. . . ."
"— the night he asked for a job!"
"I beg your pardon?"
"He hid the diadem in the castle, the night he asked Dumbledore to let him teach!” said Harry. Saying it out loud enabled him to make sense of it all. “He must’ve hidden the diadem on his way up to, or down from, Dumbledore’s office! But it was still worth trying to get the job — then he might’ve got the chance to nick Gryffindor’s sword as well — thank you, thanks!"
"Hagrid!” Harry bellowed, fighting off Fang the boarhound’s attentions as the enormous bearded figure clambered to his feet. “What the — ?"
"Harry, yer here! Yer here!"
"Good boy, Grawpy!” he bellowed through the hole in the window. “I’ll see yer in a moment, there’s a good lad!"
"Blimey, Harry,” panted Hagrid, “this is it, eh? Time ter fight?"
"Hagrid, where have you come from?"
"Heard You-Know-Who from up in our cave,” said Hagrid grimly. “Voice carried, didn’ it? ‘Yeh got till midnight ter gimme Potter.’ Knew yeh mus’ be here, knew what mus’ be happenin’. Get down, Fang. So we come ter join in, me an’ Grawpy an’ Fang. Smashed our way through the boundary by the forest, Grawpy was carryin’ us, Fang an’ me. Told him ter let me down at the castle, so he shoved me through the window, bless him. Not exac’ly what I meant, bu’ — where’s Ron an’ Hermione?"
"That,” said Harry, “is a really good question. Come on."
"Where’re we goin’?"
"I dunno exactly,” said Harry, making another random turn, “but Ron and Hermione must be around here somewhere. . . ."
"Oh, don’t mind me . . . I’ll just lie here and crumble. . . ."
"Mandrakes!” Neville bellowed at Harry over his shoulder as he ran. “Going to lob them over the walls — they won’t like this!"
"It’s all righ’, Fang — it’s all righ’!"
"Braggarts and rogues, dogs and scoundrels, drive them out, Harry Potter, see them off!"
"Nice night for it!"
"Potter!"
"I’ve had hundreds of kids thundering through my pub, Potter!"
"I know, we’re evacuating,” Harry said, “Voldemort’s —"
"— attacking because they haven’t handed you over, yeah,” said Aberforth, “I’m not deaf, the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it never occurred to any of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are kids of Death Eaters you’ve just sent to safety. Wouldn’t it have been a bit smarter to keep ’em here?"
"It wouldn’t stop Voldemort,” said Harry, “and your brother would never have done it."
"Where the hell have you been?"
"Chamber of Secrets,"
"Chamber — what?"
"It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!” said Hermione breathlessly. “Wasn’t it absolutely brilliant? There we were, after you left, and I said to Ron, even if we find the other one, how are we going to get rid of it? We still hadn’t got rid of the cup! And then he thought of it! The basilisk!"
"What the — ?"
"Something to get rid of Horcruxes,"
"But how did you get in there?” he asked, staring from the fangs to Ron. “You need to speak Parseltongue!"
"He did!” whispered Hermione. “Show him, Ron!"
"It’s what you did to open the locket,” he told Harry apologetically. “I had to have a few goes to get it right, but,” he shrugged modestly, “we got there in the end."
"He was amazing!” said Hermione. “Amazing!"
"So . . .” Harry was struggling to keep up. “So . . ."
"So we’re another Horcrux down,” said Ron, and from under his jacket he pulled the mangled remains of Hufflepuff’s cup. “Hermione stabbed it. Thought she should. She hasn’t had the pleasure yet."
"Genius!"
"It was nothing,” said Ron, though he looked delighted with himself. “So what’s new with you?"
"I know what the diadem looks like, and I know where it is,” said Harry, talking fast. “He hid it exactly where I hid my old Potions book, where everyone’s been hiding stuff for centuries. He thought he was the only one to find it. Come on."
"Ah, Potter,” she said crisply as if she had been waiting for him. “You can tell us what’s going on."
"Is everyone okay?"
"’S far as we know,” said Harry. “Are there still people in the passage to the Hog’s Head?"
"I was the last to come through,” said Mrs. Longbottom. “I sealed it, I think it unwise to leave it open now Aberforth has left his pub. Have you seen my grandson?"
"He’s fighting,"
"Naturally,” said the old lady proudly. “Excuse me, I must go and assist him."
"I thought you were supposed to be with Teddy at your mother’s?"
"I couldn’t stand not knowing —” Tonks looked anguished. “She’ll look after him — have you seen Remus?"
"He was planning to lead a group of fighters into the grounds —"
"Ginny,” said Harry, “I’m sorry, but we need you to leave too. Just for a bit. Then you can come back in."
"And then you can come back in!” he shouted after her as she ran up the steps after Tonks. “You’ve got to come back in!"
"Hang on a moment!” said Ron sharply. “We’ve forgotten someone!"
"Who?"
"The house-elves, they’ll all be down in the kitchen, won’t they?"
"You mean we ought to get them fighting?"
"No,” said Ron seriously, “I mean we should tell them to get out. We don’t want any more Dobbies, do we? We can’t order them to die for us —"
"Is this the moment?” Harry asked weakly, and when nothing happened except that Ron and Hermione gripped each other still more firmly and swayed on the spot, he raised his voice. “OI! There’s a war going on here!"
"I know, mate,” said Ron, who looked as though he had recently been hit on the back of the head with a Bludger, “so it’s now or never, isn’t it?"
"Never mind that, what about the Horcrux?” Harry shouted. “D’you think you could just — just hold it in until we’ve got the diadem?"
"Yeah — right — sorry —"
"Let’s hope he steps on some of them!"
"As long as it’s not any of our lot!"
"Good girl!” roared a figure running through the dust toward them, and Harry saw Aberforth again, his gray hair flying as he led a small group of students past. “They look like they might be breaching the north battlements, they’ve brought giants of their own!"
"Have you seen Remus?"
"He was dueling Dolohov,” shouted Aberforth, “haven’t seen him since!"
"Tonks,” said Ginny, “Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay —"
"They’ll be all right,” said Harry, though he knew they were empty words. “Ginny, we’ll be back in a moment, just keep out of the way, keep safe — come on!"
"And he never realized anyone could get in?"
"He thought he was the only one,” said Harry. “Too bad for him I’ve had to hide stuff in my time . . . this way,” he added, “I think it’s down here. . . ."
"Accio Diadem!"
"Let’s split up,” Harry told the other two. “Look for a stone bust of an old man wearing a wig and a tiara! It’s standing on a cupboard and it’s definitely somewhere near here. . . ."
"Somewhere near here,” Harry muttered to himself. “Somewhere . . . somewhere . . ."
"Hold it, Potter."
"That’s my wand you’re holding, Potter,"
"Not anymore,” panted Harry, tightening his grip on the hawthorn wand. “Winners, keepers, Malfoy. Who’s lent you theirs?"
"My mother,"
"So how come you three aren’t with Voldemort?"
"We’re gonna be rewarded,” said Crabbe: His voice was surprisingly soft for such an enormous person; Harry had hardly ever heard him speak before. Crabbe was smiling like a small child promised a large bag of sweets. “We ’ung back, Potter. We decided not to go. Decided to bring you to ’im."
"Good plan,"
"So how did you get in here?"
"I virtually lived in the Room of Hidden Things all last year,” said Malfoy, his voice brittle. “I know how to get in."
"We was hiding in the corridor outside,” grunted Goyle. “We can do Diss-lusion Charms now! And then,” his face split into a gormless grin, “you turned up right in front of us and said you was looking for a die-dum! What’s a die-dum?"
"Harry?” Ron’s voice echoed suddenly from the other side of the wall to Harry’s right. “Are you talking to someone?"
"Descendo!"
"Ron!” Harry bellowed, as somewhere out of sight Hermione screamed, and Harry heard innumerable objects crashing to the floor on the other side of the destabilized wall: He pointed his wand at the rampart, cried, “Finite!"
"No!” shouted Malfoy, staying Crabbe’s arm as the latter made to repeat his spell. “If you wreck the room you might bury this diadem thing!"
"What’s that matter?” said Crabbe, tugging himself free. “It’s Potter the Dark Lord wants, who cares about a die-dum?"
"Potter came in here to get it,” said Malfoy with ill-disguised impatience at the slow-wittedness of his colleagues, “so that must mean —"
"‘Must mean’?” Crabbe turned on Malfoy with undisguised ferocity. “Who cares what you think? I don’t take your orders no more, Draco. You an’ your dad are finished."
"Harry?” shouted Ron again, from the other side of the junk wall. “What’s going on?"
"Harry?” mimicked Crabbe. “What’s going — no, Potter! Crucio!"
"STOP!” Malfoy shouted at Crabbe, his voice echoing through the enormous room. “The Dark Lord wants him alive —"
"So? I’m not killing him, am I?” yelled Crabbe, throwing off Malfoy’s restraining arm. “But if I can, I will, the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway, what’s the diff — ?"
"It’s that Mudblood! Avada Kedavra!"
"Don’t kill him! DON’T KILL HIM!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"Avada Kedavra!"
"It’s somewhere here!” Harry yelled at her, pointing at the pile of junk into which the old tiara had fallen. “Look for it while I go and help R —"
"HARRY!"
"Like it hot, scum?"
"Aguamenti!"
"RUN!"
"What can we do?” Hermione screamed over the deafening roars of the fire. “What can we do?"
"Here!"
"Harry, let’s get out, let’s get out!"
"It’s — too — dangerous — !"
"IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I’LL KILL YOU, HARRY!"
"The door, get to the door, the door!"
"What are you doing, what are you doing, the door’s that way!"
"C-Crabbe,” choked Malfoy as soon as he could speak. “C-Crabbe . . ."
"He’s dead,"
"Where’s Ginny?” he said sharply. “She was here. She was supposed to be going back into the Room of Requirement."
"Blimey, d’you reckon it’ll still work after that fire?” asked Ron, but he too got to his feet, rubbing his chest and looking left and right. “Shall we split up and look — ?"
"No,” said Hermione, getting to her feet too. Malfoy and Goyle remained slumped hopelessly on the corridor floor; neither of them had wands. “Let’s stick together. I say we go — Harry, what’s that on your arm?"
"What? Oh yeah —"
"It must have been Fiendfyre!"
"Sorry?"
"Fiendfyre — cursed fire — it’s one of the substances that destroy Horcruxes, but I would never, ever have dared use it, it’s so dangerous — how did Crabbe know how to — ?"
"Must’ve learned from the Carrows,"
"Shame he wasn’t concentrating when they mentioned how to stop it, really,” said Ron, whose hair, like Hermione’s, was singed, and whose face was blackened. “If he hadn’t tried to kill us all, I’d be quite sorry he was dead."
"But don’t you realize?” whispered Hermione. “This means, if we can just get the snake —"
"Hello, Minister!” bellowed Percy, sending a neat jinx straight at Thicknesse, who dropped his wand and clawed at the front of his robes, apparently in awful discomfort. “Did I mention I’m resigning?"
"You’re joking, Perce!"
"You actually are joking, Perce. . . . I don’t think I’ve heard you joke since you were —"
"No — no — no!” someone was shouting. “No! Fred! No!"
"Get down!” Harry shouted, as more curses flew through the night: He and Ron had both grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the floor, but Percy lay across Fred’s body, shielding it from further harm, and when Harry shouted, “Percy, come on, we’ve got to move!"
"Percy!” Harry saw tear tracks streaking the grime coating Ron’s face as he seized his elder brother’s shoulders and pulled, but Percy would not budge. “Percy, you can’t do anything for him! We’re going to —"
"It brought friends!"
"Let’s move, NOW!"
"Here,” said Harry, and they placed him in a niche where a suit of armor had stood earlier. He could not bear to look at Fred a second longer than he had to, and after making sure that the body was well hidden, he took off after Ron and Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle had vanished, but at the end of the corridor, which was now full of dust and falling masonry, glass long gone from the windows, he saw many people running backward and forward, whether friends or foes he could not tell. Rounding the corner, Percy let out a bull-like roar: “ROOKWOOD!"
"Harry, in here!"
"Listen to me — LISTEN, RON!"
"I wanna help — I wanna kill Death Eaters —"
"Ron, we’re the only ones who can end it! Please — Ron — we need the snake, we’ve got to kill the snake!"
"We will fight!” Hermione said. “We’ll have to, to reach the snake! But let’s not lose sight now of what we’re supposed to be d-doing! We’re the only ones who can end it!"
"You need to find out where Voldemort is, because he’ll have the snake with him, won’t he? Do it, Harry — look inside him!"
"My Lord,” said a voice, desperate and cracked. He turned: There was Lucius Malfoy sitting in the darkest corner, ragged and still bearing the marks of the punishment he had received after the boy’s last escape. One of his eyes remained closed and puffy. “My Lord . . . please . . . my son . . ."
"If your son is dead, Lucius, it is not my fault. He did not come and join me, like the rest of the Slytherins. Perhaps he has decided to befriend Harry Potter?"
"No — never,"
"You must hope not."
"Aren’t — aren’t you afraid, my Lord, that Potter might die at another hand but yours?” asked Malfoy, his voice shaking. “Wouldn’t it be . . . forgive me . . . more prudent to call off this battle, enter the castle, and seek him y-yourself?"
"Do not pretend, Lucius. You wish the battle to cease so that you can discover what has happened to your son. And I do not need to seek Potter. Before the night is out, Potter will have come to find me."
"Go and fetch Snape."
"Snape, m-my Lord?"
"Snape. Now. I need him. There is a — service — I require from him. Go."
"It is the only way, Nagini,"
"He’s in the Shrieking Shack. The snake’s with him, it’s got some sort of magical protection around it. He’s just sent Lucius Malfoy to find Snape."
"Voldemort’s sitting in the Shrieking Shack?” said Hermione, outraged. “He’s not — he’s not even fighting?"
"He doesn’t think he needs to fight,” said Harry. “He thinks I’m going to go to him."
"But why?"
"He knows I’m after Horcruxes — he’s keeping Nagini close beside him — obviously I’m going to have to go to him to get near the thing —"
"Right,” said Ron, squaring his shoulders. “So you can’t go, that’s what he wants, what he’s expecting. You stay here and look after Hermione, and I’ll go and get it —"
"You two stay here, I’ll go under the Cloak and I’ll be back as soon as I —"
"No,” said Hermione, “it makes much more sense if I take the Cloak and —"
"Don’t even think about it,"
"Ron, I’m just as capable —"
"POTTER!"
"Glisseo!"
"Duro!"
"Get back!” shouted Ron, and he, Harry, and Hermione flattened themselves against a door as a herd of galloping desks thundered past, shepherded by a sprinting Professor McGonagall. She appeared not to notice them: Her hair had come down and there was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the corner, they heard her scream, “CHARGE!"
"Harry, you get the Cloak on,” said Hermione. “Never mind us —"
"Wheeeeeeeeeeee!"
"Argh!"
"Someone’s invisible there!"
"LET’S GO!"
"I’m Draco Malfoy, I’m Draco, I’m on your side!"
"And that’s the second time we’ve saved your life tonight, you two-faced bastard!"
"NO!"
"I have more!” shrieked Professor Trelawney from over the banisters. “More for any who want them! Here —"
"How do we get out?"
"Don’t hurt ’em, don’t hurt ’em!"
"HAGRID, NO!"
"HAGRID, COME BACK!"
"HAGRID!"
"HAGRID!"
"Oh my — !"
"DON’T!” Ron yelled, grabbing Hermione’s hand as she raised her wand. “Stun him and he’ll crush half the castle —"
"HAGGER?"
"RUN!"
"Come on, Harry!” said Hermione’s voice from a very long way away. “Patronuses, Harry, come on!"
"HARRY, COME ON!"
"That’s right,” said Luna encouragingly, as if they were back in the Room of Requirement and this was simply spell practice for the D.A. “That’s right, Harry . . . come on, think of something happy. . . ."
"Something happy?"
"We’re all still here,” she whispered, “we’re still fighting. Come on, now. . . ."
"Can’t thank you enough,” said Ron shakily, turning to Luna, Ernie, and Seamus, “you just saved —"
"RUN!"
"Let’s get out of range!"
"The Whomping Willow,” said Harry, “go!"
"How — how’re we going to get in?” panted Ron. “I can — see the place — if we just had — Crookshanks again —"
"Crookshanks?” wheezed Hermione, bent double, clutching her chest. “Are you a wizard, or what?"
"Oh — right — yeah —"
"Wingardium Leviosa!"
"Perfect!"
"Wait."
"Harry, we’re coming, just get in there!"
"The Cloak!” she whispered. “Put the Cloak on!"
"Nox,"
". . . my Lord, their resistance is crumbling —"
"— and it is doing so without your help,” said Voldemort in his high, clear voice. “Skilled wizard though you are, Severus, I do not think you will make much difference now. We are almost there . . . almost."
"Let me find the boy. Let me bring you Potter. I know I can find him, my Lord. Please."
"I have a problem, Severus,"
"My Lord?"
"Why doesn’t it work for me, Severus?"
"My — my Lord?” said Snape blankly. “I do not understand. You — you have performed extraordinary magic with that wand."
"No,” said Voldemort. “I have performed my usual magic. I am extraordinary, but this wand . . . no. It has not revealed the wonders it has promised. I feel no difference between this wand and the one I procured from Ollivander all those years ago."
"No difference,"
"I have thought long and hard, Severus. . . . Do you know why I have called you back from the battle?"
"No, my Lord, but I beg you will let me return. Let me find Potter."
"You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands Potter as I do. He does not need finding. Potter will come to me. I know his weakness, you see, his one great flaw. He will hate watching the others struck down around him, knowing that it is for him that it happens. He will want to stop it at any cost. He will come."
"But my Lord, he might be killed accidentally by one other than yourself —"
"But it is of you that I wished to speak, Severus, not Harry Potter. You have been very valuable to me. Very valuable."
"My Lord knows I seek only to serve him. But — let me go and find the boy, my Lord. Let me bring him to you. I know I can —"
"I have told you, no!” said Voldemort, and Harry caught the glint of red in his eyes as he turned again, and the swishing of his cloak was like the slithering of a snake, and he felt Voldemort’s impatience in his burning scar. “My concern at the moment, Severus, is what will happen when I finally meet the boy!"
"My Lord, there can be no question, surely — ?"
"— but there is a question, Severus. There is."
"Why did both the wands I have used fail when directed at Harry Potter?"
"I — I cannot answer that, my Lord."
"Can’t you?"
"My wand of yew did everything of which I asked it, Severus, except to kill Harry Potter. Twice it failed. Ollivander told me under torture of the twin cores, told me to take another’s wand. I did so, but Lucius’s wand shattered upon meeting Potter’s."
"I — I have no explanation, my Lord."
"I sought a third wand, Severus. The Elder Wand, the Wand of Destiny, the Deathstick. I took it from its previous master. I took it from the grave of Albus Dumbledore."
"My Lord — let me go to the boy —"
"All this long night, when I am on the brink of victory, I have sat here,” said Voldemort, his voice barely louder than a whisper, “wondering, wondering, why the Elder Wand refuses to be what it ought to be, refuses to perform as legend says it must perform for its rightful owner . . . and I think I have the answer."
"Perhaps you already know it? You are a clever man, after all, Severus. You have been a good and faithful servant, and I regret what must happen."
"My Lord —"
"The Elder Wand cannot serve me properly, Severus, because I am not its true master. The Elder Wand belongs to the wizard who killed its last owner. You killed Albus Dumbledore. While you live, Severus, the Elder Wand cannot be truly mine."
"My Lord!"
"It cannot be any other way,” said Voldemort. “I must master the wand, Severus. Master the wand, and I master Potter at last."
"Kill."
"I regret it,"
"Harry!"
"Take . . . it. . . . Take . . . it. . . ."
"Look . . . at . . . me. . . ."
"You have fought,"
"I speak now, Harry Potter, directly to you. You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden Forest. If, at the end of that hour, you have not come to me, have not given yourself up, then battle recommences. This time, I shall enter the fray myself, Harry Potter, and I shall find you, and I shall punish every last man, woman, and child who has tried to conceal you from me. One hour."
"Don’t listen to him,"
"It’ll be all right,” said Hermione wildly. “Let’s — let’s get back to the castle, if he’s gone to the forest we’ll need to think of a new plan —"
"Where is everyone?"
"Password?"
"Dumbledore!"
"Lily, don’t do it!"
"Mummy told you not to!"
"Mummy said you weren’t allowed, Lily!"
"But I’m fine,” said Lily, still giggling. “Tuney, look at this. Watch what I can do."
"Stop it!"
"It’s not hurting you,"
"It’s not right,” said Petunia, but her eyes had followed the flower’s flight to the ground and lingered upon it. “How do you do it?"
"It’s obvious, isn’t it?"
"What’s obvious?"
"I know what you are."
"What do you mean?"
"You’re . . . you’re a witch,"
"That’s not a very nice thing to say to somebody!"
"No!"
"You are,” said Snape to Lily. “You are a witch. I’ve been watching you for a while. But there’s nothing wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a wizard."
"Wizard!” she shrieked, her courage returned now that she had recovered from the shock of his unexpected appearance. “I know who you are. You’re that Snape boy! They live down Spinner’s End by the river,” she told Lily, and it was evident from her tone that she considered the address a poor recommendation. “Why have you been spying on us?"
"Haven’t been spying,” said Snape, hot and uncomfortable and dirty-haired in the bright sunlight. “Wouldn’t spy on you, anyway,” he added spitefully, “you’re a Muggle."
"Lily, come on, we’re leaving!"
". . . and the Ministry can punish you if you do magic outside school, you get letters."
"But I have done magic outside school!"
"We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let you off when you’re a kid and you can’t help it. But once you’re eleven,” he nodded importantly, “and they start training you, then you’ve got to go careful."
"It is real, isn’t it? It’s not a joke? Petunia says you’re lying to me. Petunia says there isn’t a Hogwarts. It is real, isn’t it?"
"It’s real for us,” said Snape. “Not for her. But we’ll get the letter, you and me."
"Really?"
"Definitely,"
"And will it really come by owl?"
"Normally,” said Snape. “But you’re Muggle-born, so someone from the school will have to come and explain to your parents."
"Does it make a difference, being Muggle-born?"
"No,” he said. “It doesn’t make any difference."
"Good,"
"You’ve got loads of magic,” said Snape. “I saw that. All the time I was watching you . . ."
"How are things at your house?"
"Fine,"
"They’re not arguing anymore?"
"Oh yes, they’re arguing,” said Snape. He picked up a fistful of leaves and began tearing them apart, apparently unaware of what he was doing. “But it won’t be that long and I’ll be gone."
"Doesn’t your dad like magic?"
"He doesn’t like anything, much,"
"Severus?"
"Yeah?"
"Tell me about the dementors again."
"What d’you want to know about them for?"
"If I use magic outside school —"
"They wouldn’t give you to the dementors for that! Dementors are for people who do really bad stuff. They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban. You’re not going to end up in Azkaban, you’re too —"
"Tuney!"
"Who’s spying now?” he shouted. “What d’you want?"
"What is that you’re wearing, anyway?” she said, pointing at Snape’s chest. “Your mum’s blouse?"
"Tuney!"
"Did you make that happen?"
"No."
"You did!” She was backing away from him. “You did! You hurt her!"
"No — no I didn’t!"
". . . I’m sorry, Tuney, I’m sorry! Listen —” She caught her sister’s hand and held tight to it, even though Petunia tried to pull it away. “Maybe once I’m there — no, listen, Tuney! Maybe once I’m there, I’ll be able to go to Professor Dumbledore and persuade him to change his mind!"
"I don’t — want — to — go!” said Petunia, and she dragged her hand back out of her sister’s grasp. “You think I want to go to some stupid castle and learn to be a — a —"
"— you think I want to be a — a freak?"
"I’m not a freak,” said Lily. “That’s a horrible thing to say."
"That’s where you’re going,” said Petunia with relish. “A special school for freaks. You and that Snape boy . . . weirdos, that’s what you two are. It’s good you’re being separated from normal people. It’s for our safety."
"You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when you wrote to the headmaster and begged him to take you."
"Beg? I didn’t beg!"
"I saw his reply. It was very kind."
"You shouldn’t have read —” whispered Petunia, “that was my private — how could you — ?"
"That boy found it! You and that boy have been sneaking in my room!"
"No — not sneaking —” Now Lily was on the defensive. “Severus saw the envelope, and he couldn’t believe a Muggle could have contacted Hogwarts, that’s all! He says there must be wizards working undercover in the postal service who take care of —"
"Apparently wizards poke their noses in everywhere!” said Petunia, now as pale as she had been flushed. “Freak!"
"I don’t want to talk to you,"
"Why not?"
"Tuney h-hates me. Because we saw that letter from Dumbledore."
"So what?"
"So she’s my sister!"
"She’s only a —"
"But we’re going!” he said, unable to suppress the exhilaration in his voice. “This is it! We’re off to Hogwarts!"
"You’d better be in Slytherin,"
"Slytherin?"
"Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?"
"My whole family have been in Slytherin,"
"Blimey,” said James, “and I thought you seemed all right!"
"Maybe I’ll break the tradition. Where are you heading, if you’ve got the choice?"
"‘Gryffindor, where dwell the brave at heart!’ Like my dad."
"Got a problem with that?"
"No,” said Snape, though his slight sneer said otherwise. “If you’d rather be brawny than brainy —"
"Where’re you hoping to go, seeing as you’re neither?"
"Come on, Severus, let’s find another compartment."
"Oooooo . . ."
"See ya, Snivellus!"
"Evans, Lily!"
"Gryffindor!"
"Slytherin!"
". . . thought we were supposed to be friends?” Snape was saying. “Best friends?"
"We are, Sev, but I don’t like some of the people you’re hanging round with! I’m sorry, but I detest Avery and Mulciber! Mulciber! What do you see in him, Sev, he’s creepy! D’you know what he tried to do to Mary Macdonald the other day?"
"That was nothing,” said Snape. “It was a laugh, that’s all —"
"It was Dark Magic, and if you think that’s funny —"
"What about the stuff Potter and his mates get up to?"
"What’s Potter got to do with anything?"
"They sneak out at night. There’s something weird about that Lupin. Where does he keep going?"
"He’s ill,” said Lily. “They say he’s ill —"
"Every month at the full moon?"
"I know your theory,” said Lily, and she sounded cold. “Why are you so obsessed with them anyway? Why do you care what they’re doing at night?"
"I’m just trying to show you they’re not as wonderful as everyone seems to think they are."
"They don’t use Dark Magic, though.” She dropped her voice. “And you’re being really ungrateful. I heard what happened the other night. You went sneaking down that tunnel by the Whomping Willow, and James Potter saved you from whatever’s down there —"
"Saved? Saved? You think he was playing the hero? He was saving his neck and his friends’ too! You’re not going to — I won’t let you —"
"Let me? Let me?"
"I didn’t mean — I just don’t want to see you made a fool of — He fancies you, James Potter fancies you!” The words seemed wrenched from him against his will. “And he’s not . . . everyone thinks . . . big Quidditch hero —"
"I know James Potter’s an arrogant toerag,” she said, cutting across Snape. “I don’t need you to tell me that. But Mulciber’s and Avery’s idea of humor is just evil. Evil, Sev. I don’t understand how you can be friends with them."
"Mudblood."
"I’m sorry."
"I’m not interested."
"I’m sorry!"
"Save your breath."
"I only came out because Mary told me you were threatening to sleep here."
"I was. I would have done. I never meant to call you Mudblood, it just —"
"Slipped out?” There was no pity in Lily’s voice. “It’s too late. I’ve made excuses for you for years. None of my friends can understand why I even talk to you. You and your precious little Death Eater friends — you see, you don’t even deny it! You don’t even deny that’s what you’re all aiming to be! You can’t wait to join You-Know-Who, can you?"
"I can’t pretend anymore. You’ve chosen your way, I’ve chosen mine."
"No — listen, I didn’t mean —"
"— to call me Mudblood? But you call everyone of my birth Mudblood, Severus. Why should I be any different?"
"Don’t kill me!"
"That was not my intention."
"Well, Severus? What message does Lord Voldemort have for me?"
"No — no message — I’m here on my own account!"
"I — I come with a warning — no, a request — please —"
"What request could a Death Eater make of me?"
"The — the prophecy . . . the prediction . . . Trelawney . . ."
"Ah, yes,” said Dumbledore. “How much did you relay to Lord Voldemort?"
"Everything — everything I heard!” said Snape. “That is why — it is for that reason — he thinks it means Lily Evans!"
"The prophecy did not refer to a woman,” said Dumbledore. “It spoke of a boy born at the end of July —"
"You know what I mean! He thinks it means her son, he is going to hunt her down — kill them all —"
"If she means so much to you,” said Dumbledore, “surely Lord Voldemort will spare her? Could you not ask for mercy for the mother, in exchange for the son?"
"I have — I have asked him —"
"You disgust me,” said Dumbledore, and Harry had never heard so much contempt in his voice. Snape seemed to shrink a little. “You do not care, then, about the deaths of her husband and child? They can die, as long as you have what you want?"
"Hide them all, then,” he croaked. “Keep her — them — safe. Please."
"And what will you give me in return, Severus?"
"In — in return?” Snape gaped at Dumbledore, and Harry expected him to protest, but after a long moment he said, “Anything."
"I thought . . . you were going . . . to keep her . . . safe. . . ."
"She and James put their faith in the wrong person,” said Dumbledore. “Rather like you, Severus. Weren’t you hoping that Lord Voldemort would spare her?"
"Her boy survives,"
"Her son lives. He has her eyes, precisely her eyes. You remember the shape and color of Lily Evans’s eyes, I am sure?"
"DON’T!” bellowed Snape. “Gone . . . dead . . ."
"Is this remorse, Severus?"
"I wish . . . I wish I were dead. . . ."
"And what use would that be to anyone?” said Dumbledore coldly. “If you loved Lily Evans, if you truly loved her, then your way forward is clear."
"What — what do you mean?"
"You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me protect Lily’s son."
"He does not need protection. The Dark Lord has gone —"
"The Dark Lord will return, and Harry Potter will be in terrible danger when he does."
"Very well. Very well. But never — never tell, Dumbledore! This must be between us! Swear it! I cannot bear . . . especially Potter’s son . . . I want your word!"
"My word, Severus, that I shall never reveal the best of you?” Dumbledore sighed, looking down into Snape’s ferocious, anguished face. “If you insist . . ."
"— mediocre, arrogant as his father, a determined rule-breaker, delighted to find himself famous, attention-seeking and impertinent —"
"You see what you expect to see, Severus,” said Dumbledore, without raising his eyes from a copy of Transfiguration Today. “Other teachers report that the boy is modest, likable, and reasonably talented. Personally, I find him an engaging child."
"Keep an eye on Quirrell, won’t you?"
"Well?"
"Karkaroff’s Mark is becoming darker too. He is panicking, he fears retribution; you know how much help he gave the Ministry after the Dark Lord fell.” Snape looked sideways at Dumbledore’s crooked-nosed profile. “Karkaroff intends to flee if the Mark burns."
"Does he?” said Dumbledore softly, as Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies came giggling in from the grounds. “And are you tempted to join him?"
"No,” said Snape, his black eyes on Fleur’s and Roger’s retreating figures. “I am not such a coward."
"No,” agreed Dumbledore. “You are a braver man by far than Igor Karkaroff. You know, I sometimes think we Sort too soon. . . ."
"Why,” said Snape, without preamble, “why did you put on that ring? It carries a curse, surely you realized that. Why even touch it?"
"I . . . was a fool. Sorely tempted . . ."
"Tempted by what?"
"It is a miracle you managed to return here!” Snape sounded furious. “That ring carried a curse of extraordinary power, to contain it is all we can hope for; I have trapped the curse in one hand for the time being —"
"You have done very well, Severus. How long do you think I have?"
"I cannot tell. Maybe a year. There is no halting such a spell forever. It will spread eventually, it is the sort of curse that strengthens over time."
"I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Severus."
"If you had only summoned me a little earlier, I might have been able to do more, buy you more time!” said Snape furiously. He looked down at the broken ring and the sword. “Did you think that breaking the ring would break the curse?"
"Something like that . . . I was delirious, no doubt . . . .” said Dumbledore. With an effort he straightened himself in his chair. “Well, really, this makes matters much more straightforward."
"I refer to the plan Lord Voldemort is revolving around me. His plan to have the poor Malfoy boy murder me."
"The Dark Lord does not expect Draco to succeed. This is merely punishment for Lucius’s recent failures. Slow torture for Draco’s parents, while they watch him fail and pay the price."
"In short, the boy has had a death sentence pronounced upon him as surely as I have,” said Dumbledore. “Now, I should have thought the natural successor to the job, once Draco fails, is yourself?"
"That, I think, is the Dark Lord’s plan."
"Lord Voldemort foresees a moment in the near future when he will not need a spy at Hogwarts?"
"He believes the school will soon be in his grasp, yes."
"And if it does fall into his grasp,” said Dumbledore, almost, it seemed, as an aside, “I have your word that you will do all in your power to protect the students of Hogwarts?"
"Good. Now then. Your first priority will be to discover what Draco is up to. A frightened teenage boy is a danger to others as well as to himself. Offer him help and guidance, he ought to accept, he likes you —"
"— much less since his father has lost favor. Draco blames me, he thinks I have usurped Lucius’s position."
"All the same, try. I am concerned less for myself than for accidental victims of whatever schemes might occur to the boy. Ultimately, of course, there is only one thing to be done if we are to save him from Lord Voldemort’s wrath."
"Are you intending to let him kill you?"
"Certainly not. You must kill me."
"Would you like me to do it now?” asked Snape, his voice heavy with irony. “Or would you like a few moments to compose an epitaph?"
"Oh, not quite yet,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “I daresay the moment will present itself in due course. Given what has happened tonight,” he indicated his withered hand, “we can be sure that it will happen within a year."
"If you don’t mind dying,” said Snape roughly, “why not let Draco do it?"
"That boy’s soul is not yet so damaged,” said Dumbledore. “I would not have it ripped apart on my account."
"And my soul, Dumbledore? Mine?"
"You alone know whether it will harm your soul to help an old man avoid pain and humiliation,” said Dumbledore. “I ask this one great favor of you, Severus, because death is coming for me as surely as the Chudley Cannons will finish bottom of this year’s league. I confess I should prefer a quick, painless exit to the protracted and messy affair it will be if, for instance, Greyback is involved — I hear Voldemort has recruited him? Or dear Bellatrix, who likes to play with her food before she eats it."
"Thank you, Severus . . ."
"What are you doing with Potter, all these evenings you are closeted together?"
"Why? You aren’t trying to give him more detentions, Severus? The boy will soon have spent more time in detention than out."
"He is his father over again —"
"In looks, perhaps, but his deepest nature is much more like his mother’s. I spend time with Harry because I have things to discuss with him, information I must give him before it is too late."
"Information,” repeated Snape. “You trust him . . . you do not trust me."
"It is not a question of trust. I have, as we both know, limited time. It is essential that I give the boy enough information for him to do what he needs to do."
"And why may I not have the same information?"
"I prefer not to put all of my secrets in one basket, particularly not a basket that spends so much time dangling on the arm of Lord Voldemort."
"Which I do on your orders!"
"And you do it extremely well. Do not think that I underestimate the constant danger in which you place yourself, Severus. To give Voldemort what appears to be valuable information while withholding the essentials is a job I would entrust to nobody but you."
"Yet you confide much more in a boy who is incapable of Occlumency, whose magic is mediocre, and who has a direct connection into the Dark Lord’s mind!"
"Voldemort fears that connection,” said Dumbledore. “Not so long ago he had one small taste of what truly sharing Harry’s mind means to him. It was pain such as he has never experienced. He will not try to possess Harry again, I am sure of it. Not in that way."
"I don’t understand."
"Lord Voldemort’s soul, maimed as it is, cannot bear close contact with a soul like Harry’s. Like a tongue on frozen steel, like flesh in flame —"
"Souls? We were talking of minds!"
"In the case of Harry and Lord Voldemort, to speak of one is to speak of the other."
"After you have killed me, Severus —"
"You refuse to tell me everything, yet you expect that small service of me!” snarled Snape, and real anger flared in the thin face now. “You take a great deal for granted, Dumbledore! Perhaps I have changed my mind!"
"You gave me your word, Severus. And while we are talking about services you owe me, I thought you agreed to keep a close eye on our young Slytherin friend?"
"Come to my office tonight, Severus, at eleven, and you shall not complain that I have no confidence in you. . . ."
"Harry must not know, not until the last moment, not until it is necessary, otherwise how could he have the strength to do what must be done?"
"But what must he do?"
"That is between Harry and me. Now listen closely, Severus. There will come a time — after my death — do not argue, do not interrupt! There will come a time when Lord Voldemort will seem to fear for the life of his snake."
"For Nagini?"
"Precisely. If there comes a time when Lord Voldemort stops sending that snake forth to do his bidding, but keeps it safe beside him under magical protection, then, I think, it will be safe to tell Harry."
"Tell him what?"
"Tell him that on the night Lord Voldemort tried to kill him, when Lily cast her own life between them as a shield, the Killing Curse rebounded upon Lord Voldemort, and a fragment of Voldemort’s soul was blasted apart from the whole, and latched itself onto the only living soul left in that collapsing building. Part of Lord Voldemort lives inside Harry, and it is that which gives him the power of speech with snakes, and a connection with Lord Voldemort’s mind that he has never understood. And while that fragment of soul, unmissed by Voldemort, remains attached to and protected by Harry, Lord Voldemort cannot die."
"So the boy . . . the boy must die?"
"And Voldemort himself must do it, Severus. That is essential."
"I thought . . . all these years . . . that we were protecting him for her. For Lily."
"We have protected him because it has been essential to teach him, to raise him, to let him try his strength,” said Dumbledore, his eyes still tight shut. “Meanwhile, the connection between them grows ever stronger, a parasitic growth: Sometimes I have thought he suspects it himself. If I know him, he will have arranged matters so that when he does set out to meet his death, it will truly mean the end of Voldemort."
"You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right moment?"
"Don’t be shocked, Severus. How many men and women have you watched die?"
"Lately, only those whom I could not save,” said Snape. He stood up. “You have used me."
"Meaning?"
"I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in mortal danger for you. Everything was supposed to be to keep Lily Potter’s son safe. Now you tell me you have been raising him like a pig for slaughter —"
"But this is touching, Severus,” said Dumbledore seriously. “Have you grown to care for the boy, after all?"
"For him?” shouted Snape. “Expecto Patronum!"
"After all this time?"
"Always,"
"You will have to give Voldemort the correct date of Harry’s departure from his aunt and uncle’s,” said Dumbledore. “Not to do so will raise suspicion, when Voldemort believes you so well informed. However, you must plant the idea of decoys; that, I think, ought to ensure Harry’s safety. Try Confunding Mundungus Fletcher. And Severus, if you are forced to take part in the chase, be sure to act your part convincingly . . . I am counting upon you to remain in Lord Voldemort’s good books as long as possible, or Hogwarts will be left to the mercy of the Carrows. . . ."
"You will suggest to the Order of the Phoenix,” Snape murmured, “that they use decoys. Polyjuice Potion. Identical Potters. It is the only thing that might work. You will forget that I have suggested this. You will present it as your own idea. You understand?"
"I understand,"
"Sectumsempra!"
"Headmaster! They are camping in the Forest of Dean! The Mudblood —"
"Do not use that word!"
"— the Granger girl, then, mentioned the place as she opened her bag and I heard her!"
"Good. Very good!” cried the portrait of Dumbledore behind the headmaster’s chair. “Now, Severus, the sword! Do not forget that it must be taken under conditions of need and valor — and he must not know that you give it! If Voldemort should read Harry’s mind and see you acting for him —"
"I know,"
"And you still aren’t going to tell me why it’s so important to give Potter the sword?"
"No, I don’t think so,” said Dumbledore’s portrait. “He will know what to do with it. And Severus, be very careful, they may not take kindly to your appearance after George Weasley’s mishap —"
"Don’t worry, Dumbledore,” he said coolly. “I have a plan. . . ."
"You know what? I can manage him alone, Neville,"
"Neville."
"Blimey, Harry, you nearly gave me heart failure!"
"Where are you going, alone?"
"It’s all part of the plan,” said Harry. “There’s something I’ve got to do. Listen — Neville —"
"Harry!” Neville looked suddenly scared. “Harry, you’re not thinking of handing yourself over?"
"No,” Harry lied easily. “’Course not . . . this is something else. But I might be out of sight for a while. You know Voldemort’s snake, Neville? He’s got a huge snake. . . . Calls it Nagini . . ."
"I’ve heard, yeah. . . . What about it?"
"It’s got to be killed. Ron and Hermione know that, but just in case they —"
"Just in case they’re — busy — and you get the chance —"
"Kill the snake?"
"Kill the snake,"
"All right, Harry. You’re okay, are you?"
"I’m fine. Thanks, Neville."
"We’re all going to keep fighting, Harry. You know that?"
"Yeah, I —"
"It’s all right,” Ginny was saying. “It’s okay. We’re going to get you inside."
"But I want to go home,” whispered the girl. “I don’t want to fight anymore!"
"I know,” said Ginny, and her voice broke. “It’s going to be all right."
"I am about to die."
"Lumos."
"You’ve been so brave."
"You are nearly there,” said James. “Very close. We are . . . so proud of you."
"Does it hurt?"
"Dying? Not at all,” said Sirius. “Quicker and easier than falling asleep."
"And he will want it to be quick. He wants it over,"
"I didn’t want you to die,” Harry said. These words came without his volition. “Any of you. I’m sorry —"
"— right after you’d had your son . . . Remus, I’m sorry —"
"I am sorry too,” said Lupin. “Sorry I will never know him . . . but he will know why I died and I hope he will understand. I was trying to make a world in which he could live a happier life."
"You’ll stay with me?"
"Until the very end,"
"They won’t be able to see you?"
"We are part of you,” said Sirius. “Invisible to anyone else."
"Stay close to me,"
"Someone there,” came a rough whisper close at hand. “He’s got an Invisibility Cloak. Could it be — ?"
"Definitely heard something,” said Yaxley. “Animal, d’you reckon?"
"That head case Hagrid kept a whole bunch of stuff in here,"
"Time’s nearly up. Potter’s had his hour. He’s not coming."
"And he was sure he’d come! He won’t be happy."
"Better go back,” said Yaxley. “Find out what the plan is now."
"No sign of him, my Lord,"
"My Lord —"
"I thought he would come,” said Voldemort in his high, clear voice, his eyes on the leaping flames. “I expected him to come."
"I was, it seems . . . mistaken,"
"You weren’t."
"HARRY! NO!"
"NO! NO! HARRY, WHAT’RE YEH — ?"
"QUIET!"
"Harry Potter,” he said very softly. His voice might have been part of the spitting fire. “The Boy Who Lived."
"You cannot help."
"Harry.” He spread his arms wide, and his hands were both whole and white and undamaged. “You wonderful boy. You brave, brave man. Let us walk."
"But you’re dead,"
"Oh yes,"
"Then . . . I’m dead too?"
"Ah,” said Dumbledore, smiling still more broadly. “That is the question, isn’t it? On the whole, dear boy, I think not."
"Not?"
"Not,"
"But . . .” Harry raised his hand instinctively toward the lightning scar. It did not seem to be there. “But I should have died — I didn’t defend myself! I meant to let him kill me!"
"And that,” said Dumbledore, “will, I think, have made all the difference."
"Explain,"
"But you already know,"
"I let him kill me,” said Harry. “Didn’t I?"
"You did,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Go on!"
"So the part of his soul that was in me . . ."
". . . has it gone?"
"Oh yes!” said Dumbledore. “Yes, he destroyed it. Your soul is whole, and completely your own, Harry."
"But then . . ."
"What is that, Professor?"
"Something that is beyond either of our help,"
"But if Voldemort used the Killing Curse,” Harry started again, “and nobody died for me this time — how can I be alive?"
"I think you know,” said Dumbledore. “Think back. Remember what he did, in his ignorance, in his greed and his cruelty."
"He took my blood,"
"Precisely!” said Dumbledore. “He took your blood and rebuilt his living body with it! Your blood in his veins, Harry, Lily’s protection inside both of you! He tethered you to life while he lives!"
"I live . . . while he lives? But I thought . . . I thought it was the other way round! I thought we both had to die? Or is it the same thing?"
"Are you sure we can’t do anything?"
"There is no help possible."
"Then explain . . . more,"
"He took your blood believing it would strengthen him. He took into his body a tiny part of the enchantment your mother laid upon you when she died for you. His body keeps her sacrifice alive, and while that enchantment survives, so do you and so does Voldemort’s one last hope for himself."
"And you knew this? You knew — all along?"
"I guessed. But my guesses have usually been good,"
"There’s more,” said Harry. “There’s more to it. Why did my wand break the wand he borrowed?"
"As to that, I cannot be sure."
"Have a guess, then,"
"I believe that your wand imbibed some of the power and qualities of Voldemort’s wand that night, which is to say that it contained a little of Voldemort himself. So your wand recognized him when he pursued you, recognized a man who was both kin and mortal enemy, and it regurgitated some of his own magic against him, magic much more powerful than anything Lucius’s wand had ever performed. Your wand now contained the power of your enormous courage and of Voldemort’s own deadly skill: What chance did that poor stick of Lucius Malfoy’s stand?"
"But if my wand was so powerful, how come Hermione was able to break it?"
"My dear boy, its remarkable effects were directed only at Voldemort, who had tampered so ill-advisedly with the deepest laws of magic. Only toward him was that wand abnormally powerful. Otherwise it was a wand like any other . . . though a good one, I am sure,"
"He killed me with your wand."
"He failed to kill you with my wand,” Dumbledore corrected Harry. “I think we can agree that you are not dead — though, of course,” he added, as if fearing he had been discourteous, “I do not minimize your sufferings, which I am sure were severe."
"I feel great at the moment, though,” said Harry, looking down at his clean, unblemished hands. “Where are we, exactly?"
"Well, I was going to ask you that,” said Dumbledore, looking around. “Where would you say that we are?"
"It looks,” he said slowly, “like King’s Cross station. Except a lot cleaner and empty, and there are no trains as far as I can see."
"King’s Cross station!” Dumbledore was chuckling immoderately. “Good gracious, really?"
"Well, where do you think we are?"
"My dear boy, I have no idea. This is, as they say, your party."
"The Deathly Hallows,"
"Ah, yes,"
"Well?"
"Can you forgive me?” he said. “Can you forgive me for not trusting you? For not telling you? Harry, I only feared that you would fail as I had failed. I only dreaded that you would make my mistakes. I crave your pardon, Harry. I have known, for some time now, that you are the better man."
"What are you talking about?"
"The Hallows, the Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore. “A desperate man’s dream!"
"But they’re real!"
"Real, and dangerous, and a lure for fools,” said Dumbledore. “And I was such a fool. But you know, don’t you? I have no secrets from you anymore. You know."
"What do I know?"
"Master of death, Harry, master of Death! Was I better, ultimately, than Voldemort?"
"Of course you were,” said Harry. “Of course — how can you ask that? You never killed if you could avoid it!"
"True, true,” said Dumbledore, and he was like a child seeking reassurance. “Yet I too sought a way to conquer death, Harry."
"Not the way he did,” said Harry. After all his anger at Dumbledore, how odd it was to sit here, beneath the high, vaulted ceiling, and defend Dumbledore from himself. “Hallows, not Horcruxes."
"Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore, “not Horcruxes. Precisely."
"Grindelwald was looking for them too?"
"It was the thing, above all, that drew us together,” he said quietly. “Two clever, arrogant boys with a shared obsession. He wanted to come to Godric’s Hollow, as I am sure you have guessed, because of the grave of Ignotus Peverell. He wanted to explore the place the third brother had died."
"So it’s true?” asked Harry. “All of it? The Peverell brothers —"
"— were the three brothers of the tale,"
"The Cloak, as you know now, traveled down through the ages, father to son, mother to daughter, right down to Ignotus’s last living descendant, who was born, as Ignotus was, in the village of Godric’s Hollow."
"Me?"
"You. You have guessed, I know, why the Cloak was in my possession on the night your parents died. James had showed it to me just a few days previously. It explained much of his undetected wrongdoing at school! I could hardly believe what I was seeing. I asked to borrow it, to examine it. I had long since given up my dream of uniting the Hallows, but I could not resist, could not help taking a closer look. . . . It was a Cloak the likes of which I had never seen, immensely old, perfect in every respect . . . and then your father died, and I had two Hallows at last, all to myself!"
"The Cloak wouldn’t have helped them survive, though,” Harry said quickly. “Voldemort knew where my mum and dad were. The Cloak couldn’t have made them curse-proof."
"True,” sighed Dumbledore. “True."
"So you’d given up looking for the Hallows when you saw the Cloak?"
"Oh yes,” said Dumbledore faintly. It seemed that he forced himself to meet Harry’s eyes. “You know what happened. You know. You cannot despise me more than I despise myself."
"But I don’t despise you —"
"Then you should,"
"I resented it, Harry."
"Do not misunderstand me,"
"So that, when my mother died, and I was left the responsibility of a damaged sister and a wayward brother, I returned to my village in anger and bitterness. Trapped and wasted, I thought! And then, of course, he came. . . ."
"The argument became a fight. Grindelwald lost control. That which I had always sensed in him, though I pretended not to, now sprang into terrible being. And Ariana . . . after all my mother’s care and caution . . . lay dead upon the floor."
"Years passed. There were rumors about him. They said he had procured a wand of immense power. I, meanwhile, was offered the post of Minister of Magic, not once, but several times. Naturally, I refused. I had learned that I was not to be trusted with power."
"But you’d have been better, much better, than Fudge or Scrimgeour!"
"Would I?"
"I was safer at Hogwarts. I think I was a good teacher —"
"You were the best —"
"Oh, not death,"
"Well, you know what happened next. I won the duel. I won the wand."
"Grindelwald tried to stop Voldemort going after the wand. He lied, you know, pretended he had never had it."
"They say he showed remorse in later years, alone in his cell at Nurmengard. I hope that it is true. I would like to think he did feel the horror and shame of what he had done. Perhaps that lie to Voldemort was his attempt to make amends . . . to prevent Voldemort from taking the Hallow . . ."
". . . or maybe from breaking into your tomb?"
"You tried to use the Resurrection Stone."
"I was such a fool, Harry. After all those years I had learned nothing. I was unworthy to unite the Deathly Hallows, I had proved it time and again, and here was final proof."
"Why?” said Harry. “It was natural! You wanted to see them again. What’s wrong with that?"
"But the Cloak, I took out of vain curiosity, and so it could never have worked for me as it works for you, its true owner. The stone I would have used in an attempt to drag back those who are at peace, rather than to enable my self-sacrifice, as you did. You are the worthy possessor of the Hallows."
"Why did you have to make it so difficult?"
"I am afraid I counted on Miss Granger to slow you up, Harry. I was afraid that your hot head might dominate your good heart. I was scared that, if presented outright with the facts about those tempting objects, you might seize the Hallows as I did, at the wrong time, for the wrong reasons. If you laid hands on them, I wanted you to possess them safely. You are the true master of death, because the true master does not seek to run away from Death. He accepts that he must die, and understands that there are far, far worse things in the living world than dying."
"And Voldemort never knew about the Hallows?"
"I do not think so, because he did not recognize the Resurrection Stone he turned into a Horcrux. But even if he had known about them, Harry, I doubt that he would have been interested in any except the first. He would not think that he needed the Cloak, and as for the stone, whom would he want to bring back from the dead? He fears the dead. He does not love."
"But you expected him to go after the wand?"
"I have been sure that he would try, ever since your wand beat Voldemort’s in the graveyard of Little Hangleton. At first, he was afraid that you had conquered him by superior skill. Once he had kidnapped Ollivander, however, he discovered the existence of the twin cores. He thought that explained everything. Yet the borrowed wand did no better against yours! So Voldemort, instead of asking himself what quality it was in you that had made your wand so strong, what gift you possessed that he did not, naturally set out to find the one wand that, they said, would beat any other. For him, the Elder Wand has become an obsession to rival his obsession with you. He believes that the Elder Wand removes his last weakness and makes him truly invincible. Poor Severus . . ."
"If you planned your death with Snape, you meant him to end up with the Elder Wand, didn’t you?"
"I admit that was my intention,” said Dumbledore, “but it did not work as I intended, did it?"
"No,” said Harry. “That bit didn’t work out."
"I’ve got to go back, haven’t I?"
"That is up to you."
"I’ve got a choice?"
"Oh yes.” Dumbledore smiled at him. “We are in King’s Cross, you say? I think that if you decided not to go back, you would be able to . . . let’s say . . . board a train."
"And where would it take me?"
"On,"
"Voldemort’s got the Elder Wand."
"True. Voldemort has the Elder Wand."
"But you want me to go back?"
"I think,” said Dumbledore, “that if you choose to return, there is a chance that he may be finished for good. I cannot promise it. But I know this, Harry, that you have less to fear from returning here than he does."
"Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all, those who live without love. By returning, you may ensure that fewer souls are maimed, fewer families are torn apart. If that seems to you a worthy goal, then we say good-bye for the present."
"Tell me one last thing,” said Harry. “Is this real? Or has this been happening inside my head?"
"Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should that mean that it is not real?"
"My Lord . . . my Lord . . ."
"My Lord . . ."
"That will do,"
"My Lord, let me —"
"I do not require assistance,” said Voldemort coldly, and though he could not see it, Harry pictured Bellatrix withdrawing a helpful hand. “The boy . . . Is he dead?"
"You,” said Voldemort, and there was a bang and a small shriek of pain. “Examine him. Tell me whether he is dead."
"Is Draco alive? Is he in the castle?"
"Yes,"
"He is dead!"
"You see?” screeched Voldemort over the tumult. “Harry Potter is dead by my hand, and no man alive can threaten me now! Watch! Crucio!"
"Now,” said Voldemort, “we go to the castle, and show them what has become of their hero. Who shall drag the body? No — Wait —"
"You carry him,” Voldemort said. “He will be nice and visible in your arms, will he not? Pick up your little friend, Hagrid. And the glasses — put on the glasses — he must be recognizable —"
"Move,"
"BANE!"
"Happy now, are yeh, that yeh didn’ fight, yeh cowardly bunch o’ nags? Are yeh happy Harry Potter’s — d-dead . . . ?"
"Stop."
"The battle is won. You have lost half of your fighters. My Death Eaters outnumber you, and the Boy Who Lived is finished. There must be no more war. Anyone who continues to resist, man, woman, or child, will be slaughtered, as will every member of their family. Come out of the castle now, kneel before me, and you shall be spared. Your parents and children, your brothers and sisters will live and be forgiven, and you will join me in the new world we shall build together."
"Come,"
"Harry,” sobbed Hagrid. “Oh, Harry . . . Harry . . ."
"Stop."
"NO!"
"No!"
"No!"
"Harry! HARRY!"
"SILENCE!” cried Voldemort, and there was a bang and a flash of bright light, and silence was forced upon them all. “It is over! Set him down, Hagrid, at my feet, where he belongs!"
"You see?” said Voldemort, and Harry felt him striding backward and forward right beside the place where he lay. “Harry Potter is dead! Do you understand now, deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, but a boy who relied on others to sacrifice themselves for him!"
"He beat you!"
"He was killed while trying to sneak out of the castle grounds,” said Voldemort, and there was relish in his voice for the lie, “killed while trying to save himself —"
"And who is this?” he said in his soft snake’s hiss. “Who has volunteered to demonstrate what happens to those who continue to fight when the battle is lost?"
"It is Neville Longbottom, my Lord! The boy who has been giving the Carrows so much trouble! The son of the Aurors, remember?"
"Ah, yes, I remember,” said Voldemort, looking down at Neville, who was struggling back to his feet, unarmed and unprotected, standing in the no-man’s-land between the survivors and the Death Eaters. “But you are a pureblood, aren’t you, my brave boy?"
"So what if I am?"
"You show spirit and bravery, and you come of noble stock. You will make a very valuable Death Eater. We need your kind, Neville Longbottom."
"I’ll join you when hell freezes over,” said Neville. “Dumbledore’s Army!"
"Very well,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard more danger in the silkiness of his voice than in the most powerful curse. “If that is your choice, Longbottom, we revert to the original plan. On your head,” he said quietly, “be it."
"There will be no more Sorting at Hogwarts School,” said Voldemort. “There will be no more Houses. The emblem, shield, and colors of my noble ancestor, Salazar Slytherin, will suffice for everyone. Won’t they, Neville Longbottom?"
"Neville here is now going to demonstrate what happens to anyone foolish enough to continue to oppose me,"
"HAGGER!"
"HARRY!” Hagrid shouted. “HARRY — WHERE’S HARRY?"
"Fight! Fight! Fight for my Master, defender of house-elves! Fight the Dark Lord, in the name of brave Regulus! Fight!"
"NOT MY DAUGHTER, YOU BITCH!"
"OUT OF MY WAY!"
"No!” Mrs. Weasley cried as a few students ran forward, trying to come to her aid. “Get back! Get back! She is mine!"
"What will happen to your children when I’ve killed you?” taunted Bellatrix, as mad as her master, capering as Molly’s curses danced around her. “When Mummy’s gone the same way as Freddie?"
"You — will — never — touch — our — children — again!"
"Protego!"
"Harry!” “HE’S ALIVE!"
"I don’t want anyone else to try to help,” Harry said loudly, and in the total silence his voice carried like a trumpet call. “It’s got to be like this. It’s got to be me."
"Potter doesn’t mean that,” he said, his red eyes wide. “That isn’t how he works, is it? Who are you going to use as a shield today, Potter?"
"Nobody,” said Harry simply. “There are no more Horcruxes. It’s just you and me. Neither can live while the other survives, and one of us is about to leave for good. . . ."
"One of us?” jeered Voldemort, and his whole body was taut and his red eyes stared, a snake that was about to strike. “You think it will be you, do you, the boy who has survived by accident, and because Dumbledore was pulling the strings?"
"Accident, was it, when my mother died to save me?” asked Harry. They were still moving sideways, both of them, in that perfect circle, maintaining the same distance from each other, and for Harry no face existed but Voldemort’s. “Accident, when I decided to fight in that graveyard? Accident, that I didn’t defend myself tonight, and still survived, and returned to fight again?"
"Accidents!” screamed Voldemort, but still he did not strike, and the watching crowd was frozen as if Petrified, and of the hundreds in the Hall, nobody seemed to breathe but they two. “Accident and chance and the fact that you crouched and sniveled behind the skirts of greater men and women, and permitted me to kill them for you!"
"You won’t be killing anyone else tonight,” said Harry as they circled, and stared into each other’s eyes, green into red. “You won’t be able to kill any of them ever again. Don’t you get it? I was ready to die to stop you from hurting these people —"
"But you did not!"
"— I meant to, and that’s what did it. I’ve done what my mother did. They’re protected from you. Haven’t you noticed how none of the spells you put on them are binding? You can’t torture them. You can’t touch them. You don’t learn from your mistakes, Riddle, do you?"
"You dare —"
"Yes, I dare,” said Harry. “I know things you don’t know, Tom Riddle. I know lots of important things that you don’t. Want to hear some, before you make another big mistake?"
"Is it love again?” said Voldemort, his snake’s face jeering. “Dumbledore’s favorite solution, love, which he claimed conquered death, though love did not stop him falling from the tower and breaking like an old waxwork? Love, which did not prevent me stamping out your Mudblood mother like a cockroach, Potter — and nobody seems to love you enough to run forward this time and take my curse. So what will stop you dying now when I strike?"
"Just one thing,"
"If it is not love that will save you this time,” said Voldemort, “you must believe that you have magic that I do not, or else a weapon more powerful than mine?"
"I believe both,"
"You think you know more magic than I do?” he said. “Than I, than Lord Voldemort, who has performed magic that Dumbledore himself never dreamed of?"
"Oh, he dreamed of it,” said Harry, “but he knew more than you, knew enough not to do what you’ve done."
"You mean he was weak!” screamed Voldemort. “Too weak to dare, too weak to take what might have been his, what will be mine!"
"No, he was cleverer than you,” said Harry, “a better wizard, a better man."
"I brought about the death of Albus Dumbledore!"
"You thought you did,” said Harry, “but you were wrong."
"Dumbledore is dead!” Voldemort hurled the words at Harry as though they would cause him unendurable pain. “His body decays in the marble tomb in the grounds of this castle, I have seen it, Potter, and he will not return!"
"Yes, Dumbledore’s dead,” said Harry calmly, “but you didn’t have him killed. He chose his own manner of dying, chose it months before he died, arranged the whole thing with the man you thought was your servant."
"What childish dream is this?"
"Severus Snape wasn’t yours,” said Harry. “Snape was Dumbledore’s, Dumbledore’s from the moment you started hunting down my mother. And you never realized it, because of the thing you can’t understand. You never saw Snape cast a Patronus, did you, Riddle?"
"Snape’s Patronus was a doe,” said Harry, “the same as my mother’s, because he loved her for nearly all of his life, from the time when they were children. You should have realized,” he said as he saw Voldemort’s nostrils flare, “he asked you to spare her life, didn’t he?"
"He desired her, that was all,” sneered Voldemort, “but when she had gone, he agreed that there were other women, and of purer blood, worthier of him —"
"Of course he told you that,” said Harry, “but he was Dumbledore’s spy from the moment you threatened her, and he’s been working against you ever since! Dumbledore was already dying when Snape finished him!"
"It matters not!"
"Dumbledore was trying to keep the Elder Wand from me! He intended that Snape should be the true master of the wand! But I got there ahead of you, little boy — I reached the wand before you could get your hands on it, I understood the truth before you caught up. I killed Severus Snape three hours ago, and the Elder Wand, the Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny is truly mine! Dumbledore’s last plan went wrong, Harry Potter!"
"Yeah, it did,” said Harry. “You’re right. But before you try to kill me, I’d advise you to think about what you’ve done. . . . Think, and try for some remorse, Riddle. . . ."
"What is this?"
"It’s your one last chance,” said Harry, “it’s all you’ve got left. . . . I’ve seen what you’ll be otherwise. . . . Be a man . . . try . . . Try for some remorse. . . ."
"You dare — ?"
"Yes, I dare,” said Harry, “because Dumbledore’s last plan hasn’t backfired on me at all. It’s backfired on you, Riddle."
"That wand still isn’t working properly for you because you murdered the wrong person. Severus Snape was never the true master of the Elder Wand. He never defeated Dumbledore."
"He killed —"
"Aren’t you listening? Snape never beat Dumbledore! Dumbledore’s death was planned between them! Dumbledore intended to die undefeated, the wand’s last true master! If all had gone as planned, the wand’s power would have died with him, because it had never been won from him!"
"But then, Potter, Dumbledore as good as gave me the wand!” Voldemort’s voice shook with malicious pleasure. “I stole the wand from its last master’s tomb! I removed it against its last master’s wishes! Its power is mine!"
"You still don’t get it, Riddle, do you? Possessing the wand isn’t enough! Holding it, using it, doesn’t make it really yours. Didn’t you listen to Ollivander? The wand chooses the wizard. . . . The Elder Wand recognized a new master before Dumbledore died, someone who never even laid a hand on it. The new master removed the wand from Dumbledore against his will, never realizing exactly what he had done, or that the world’s most dangerous wand had given him its allegiance. . . ."
"The true master of the Elder Wand was Draco Malfoy."
"But what does it matter?” he said softly. “Even if you are right, Potter, it makes no difference to you and me. You no longer have the phoenix wand: We duel on skill alone . . . and after I have killed you, I can attend to Draco Malfoy. . . ."
"But you’re too late,” said Harry. “You’ve missed your chance. I got there first. I overpowered Draco weeks ago. I took this wand from him."
"So it all comes down to this, doesn’t it?” whispered Harry. “Does the wand in your hand know its last master was Disarmed? Because if it does . . . I am the true master of the Elder Wand."
"Avada Kedavra!"
"Expelliarmus!"
"I’d want some peace and quiet, if it were me,"
"I’d love some,"
"I’ll distract them all,” she said. “Use your Cloak."
"Oooh, look, a Blibbering Humdinger!"
"It’s me,” he muttered, crouching down between them. “Will you come with me?"
"Really gives a feeling for the scope and tragedy of the thing, doesn’t it?"
"Can we go up?"
"Feel free,"
"And let it be noted that Slytherin House played its part! Let our contribution not be forgotten!"
"The thing that was hidden in the Snitch,” he began, “I dropped it in the forest. I don’t know exactly where, but I’m not going to go looking for it again. Do you agree?"
"My dear boy, I do,” said Dumbledore, while his fellow pictures looked confused and curious. “A wise and courageous decision, but no less than I would have expected of you. Does anyone else know where it fell?"
"No one,"
"I’m going to keep Ignotus’s present, though,"
"But of course, Harry, it is yours forever, until you pass it on!"
"And then there’s this."
"I don’t want it,"
"What?” said Ron loudly. “Are you mental?"
"I know it’s powerful,” said Harry wearily. “But I was happier with mine. So . . ."
"Reparo."
"I’m putting the Elder Wand,” he told Dumbledore, who was watching him with enormous affection and admiration, “back where it came from. It can stay there. If I die a natural death like Ignotus, its power will be broken, won’t it? The previous master will never have been defeated. That’ll be the end of it."
"Are you sure?"
"I think Harry’s right,"
"That wand’s more trouble than it’s worth,” said Harry. “And quite honestly,” he turned away from the painted portraits, thinking now only of the four-poster bed lying waiting for him in Gryffindor Tower, and wondering whether Kreacher might bring him a sandwich there, “I’ve had enough trouble for a lifetime."
"It won’t be long, and you’ll be going too,"
"Two years,” sniffed Lily. “I want to go now!"
"I won’t! I won’t be in Slytherin!"
"James, give it a rest!"
"I only said he might be,” said James, grinning at his younger brother. “There’s nothing wrong with that. He might be in Slyth —"
"You’ll write to me, won’t you?"
"Every day, if you want us to,"
"Not every day,” said Albus quickly. “James says most people only get letters from home about once a month."
"We wrote to James three times a week last year,"
"And you don’t want to believe everything he tells you about Hogwarts,” Harry put in. “He likes a laugh, your brother."
"Where are they?"
"We’ll find them,"
"I think that’s them, Al,"
"Hi,"
"Parked all right, then?” Ron asked Harry. “I did. Hermione didn’t believe I could pass a Muggle driving test, did you? She thought I’d have to Confund the examiner."
"No, I didn’t,” said Hermione, “I had complete faith in you."
"As a matter of fact, I did Confund him,” Ron whispered to Harry, as together they lifted Albus’s trunk and owl onto the train. “I only forgot to look in the wing mirror, and let’s face it, I can use a Supersensory Charm for that."
"If you’re not in Gryffindor, we’ll disinherit you,” said Ron, “but no pressure."
"Ron!"
"He doesn’t mean it,"
"Look who it is."
"So that’s little Scorpius,” said Ron under his breath. “Make sure you beat him in every test, Rosie. Thank God you inherited your mother’s brains."
"Ron, for heaven’s sake,” said Hermione, half stern, half amused. “Don’t try to turn them against each other before they’ve even started school!"
"You’re right, sorry,” said Ron, but unable to help himself, he added, “Don’t get too friendly with him, though, Rosie. Granddad Weasley would never forgive you if you married a pureblood."
"Hey!"
"Teddy’s back there,” he said breathlessly, pointing back over his shoulder into the billowing clouds of steam. “Just seen him! And guess what he’s doing? Snogging Victoire!"
"Our Teddy! Teddy Lupin! Snogging our Victoire! Our cousin! And I asked Teddy what he was doing —"
"You interrupted them?” said Ginny. “You are so like Ron —"
"— and he said he’d come to see her off! And then he told me to go away. He’s snogging her!"
"Oh, it would be lovely if they got married!” whispered Lily ecstatically. “Teddy would really be part of the family then!"
"He already comes round for dinner about four times a week,” said Harry. “Why don’t we just invite him to live with us and have done with it?"
"Yeah!” said James enthusiastically. “I don’t mind sharing with Al — Teddy could have my room!"
"No,” said Harry firmly, “you and Al will share a room only when I want the house demolished."
"It’s nearly eleven, you’d better get on board."
"Don’t forget to give Neville our love!"
"Mum! I can’t give a professor love!"
"But you know Neville —"
"Outside, yeah, but at school he’s Professor Longbottom, isn’t he? I can’t walk into Herbology and give him love. . . ."
"See you later, Al. Watch out for the thestrals."
"I thought they were invisible? You said they were invisible!"
"Thestrals are nothing to worry about,” Harry told Albus. “They’re gentle things, there’s nothing scary about them. Anyway, you won’t be going up to school in the carriages, you’ll be going in the boats."
"See you at Christmas."
"Bye, Al,” said Harry as his son hugged him. “Don’t forget Hagrid’s invited you to tea next Friday. Don’t mess with Peeves. Don’t duel anyone till you’ve learned how. And don’t let James wind you up."
"What if I’m in Slytherin?"
"Albus Severus,” Harry said quietly, so that nobody but Ginny could hear, and she was tactful enough to pretend to be waving to Rose, who was now on the train, “you were named for two headmasters of Hogwarts. One of them was a Slytherin and he was probably the bravest man I ever knew."
"But just say —"
"— then Slytherin House will have gained an excellent student, won’t it? It doesn’t matter to us, Al. But if it matters to you, you’ll be able to choose Gryffindor over Slytherin. The Sorting Hat takes your choice into account."
"Really?"
"It did for me,"
"Why are they all staring?"
"Don’t let it worry you,” said Ron. “It’s me. I’m extremely famous."
"He’ll be all right,"
"I know he will."
"The Libation Bearers"
"More Fruits of Solitude,"
